10. Weltkongress für Milchwirtschaft Rom-Mailand
1949 crop productivity and meteorological factors
3rd Congreso Nacional de Riegos (Valencia, 1921)
A college workbook in weather and climate
A study on the crop-climate in Japan
Agenda y mentor agrícolo; guía del agricultor y el colono con el calendario de todos los trabajos rurales. 3 ed. encargada por el COngreso Nacional (Le del 31 de octobre 1924) [Agricultural almanac; guide for farmers and settlers with a calendar of all the rural activities. Commissioned by the National Congress (Law of Oct. 31, 1924)]
Agrarmeteorologie. Die Abhängigkeit der Ernteeträge von Wetter und Klima
Agricultural Meteorology. Relation of the Weather to the Yield of Wheat in Manitoba
Agricultural Meteorology: Notes
Agricultural Meteorology: The Effect of Weather on Crops
Agricultural geography of Europe and the Near East
Agricultural meteorology
Agriculture and meteorology
Agriculture and microclimatology
Agriculture and weather
Agro-physics
Agroklimaticheskoe raionirovanie Kazakhstana [Agroclimatic regionalization of Kazakstan]
Agrometeorologiiā [Agrometeorology]
Agromélioration forestière
Agrotechnique dans la lutte contre la perte des cultures ivernales
An introduction to weather and climate
Annals of agricultural meteorology [Vol. 1]
Annals of agricultural meteorology [Vol. 2]
Annals of agricultural meteorology [Vol. 3]
Annuaire de l'institut de Physique du Globe
Atlas of American agriculture
Atlas of climatic types in the United States, 1900–1939
Atlas-aklimi le-Erets-Yisrael u-sheknenoteha [Bioclimatic atlas of Israel]
Bedeutung exakter Klimawerte in der Standortslehre
Berichte der mathematisch–physischen Klasse der Sächsischen Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Leipzig
Beziehungen zwischen den Schwankungen des Klimas und der Produktion in Australien [Relations between climatic variations and production in Australia]
Biological effects of radiation
Business cycles; the problem and its setting
Centenary proceedings of the Royal Meteorological Society
Choz. nauka v S.S.S.R. [Agricultural Science in the USSR]
Climate and Man: Yearbook of the U.S. Department of Agriculture 1941
Climate of Kansas
Climate of wheat in Lucania (South Italy)
Climatic control
Climatic cycles and tree growth: a study of the annual rings of trees in relation to climate and solar activity
Climatological handbook for the Moscow district
Climatological normals for Egypt and the Sudan, Cyprus and Palestine
Climats, Forêts et désertification de'l Afrique tropicale [Climates, forests and desertification of tropical Africa]
Commission de Météorologie agricole, Procés-verbaux
Comparison of climate of the United States and Europe with special attention to Poland and her Baltic coast
Conference of Empire Meteorologists, 1929, Agricultural Section. II. Papers and Discussions
Cooperative agricultural technique
Cosmic radiation and its biological effects
Crop production and environment
Crop yields and weather
Crop-production in India. A critical survey of its problems
Crops and weather
Das Eindringen des Frostes in Böden unter gleichen und verschiedenen Witterungsbedingungen während des sehr kalten Winters 1939/40 [Penetration of frost into the ground under similar and different weather conditions during the very cold winter 1939-40]
Das Klima der bodennahen Luftschicht: ein Lehrbuch der Mikroklimatologie
Das Meteorologische Jahrbuch München 1933
Das Meteorologische Jahrbuch München 1934
De invloed van licht en temperatuur op de periodieke ontwikkeling van de aardbei (Fragaria grandiflora Ehrh.) en de beteekenis daarvan voor de teelt [Influence of light and temperature on the development of the strawberry in connection with its practical application]
De l'influence de quelques facteurs des climats élevés sur la matière grasse du lait de vache
Der Einfluss des Klimas auf den Bau der Pflanzengewebe. Anatomisch-physiologische Untersuchungen in den Tropen [The influence of the climate on the structure of plant tissues. Anatomical and physiological investigations in the tropics]
Der Einfluss klimatischer Faktoren auf die Höhe des Pflanzenertrages
Der Wärmehaushalt der Pflanzen [The heat balance of plants]
Der deutsche Weinbau
Der jährliche Gang der Luft- und Bodentemperatur im Freien und in Waldungen und der Wärmeaustausch im Erdboden [Annual change of air and soil temperature in the open and in the forest and the heat exchange of the earth]
Descrip­tions of types of principal American vari­eties of tomatoes
Deutsches Meteorologisches Jahrbuch für Bayern 1933
Die Bekämpfung von Frostschäden
Die Feldberegnung, 2. Folge
Die Wärmeübertragung durch Leitung und Konvektion, Verdunstung und Strahlung in Bioklimatologie und Meteorologie
Die hydrometeorologische Forschung in Bayern
Die phänologischen Beobachtungen der Jahre 1864–1897 und die Ernteerträge im Königreich Sachsen in ihrer Abhängigkeit von den Witterungsverhältnissen
Détermination de la température et de l'humidité atmosphérique à l'aide d'un nouveau modèle du psychomètre
Ecological crop geography
Einführung in die Bioklimatologie [Introduction to bioclimatology]
Einführung in die Probleme der Agrarmeteorologie [Introduction to the problems of agricultural meteorology]
El clima y los seres vivos [Climate and living beings]
El vegetal en sus relaciones con el medio ambiente. Ecología Agrícola [The vegetation in its relations with the environment. Agrcultural ecology]
Etude sur la résistance au froid du blé et de l'avoine, Nancy (Berger-Levrault), 1931
Experimental studies on the nature of species. I. Effect of varied environment on western North American plants
Field manual of plant ecology
Fizika teploobmena v pochve [Physics of heat exchange in the soil]
Forecasting from synoptic weather charts
Forest influences: the effect of woody vegetation on climate, water, and soil, with applications to the conservation of water and the control of floods and erosion
Forest soils
Fröste und Frostbekäpfung im Weinbau [Frosts and frost fighting in viticulture, Vol. 1]
Fröste und Frostbekäpfung im Weinbau [Frosts and frost fighting in viticulture, Vol. 2]
Growth of Avena coleoptile and first internode in different wave-length bands of the visible spectrum
Growth of plants
Heat transfer by infrared radiation in the atmosphere
Heat transfer notes
Hydrology
Indications pour enregistrement dans uns questionnaire spécial des conditions des semailles et des phases du developpement des cultures hivernales
Industrial prosperity and the farmer
Influence of the meteorological factors on the development and yields of apple-tree, on the basis of the data collected by the Meteorological-Agricultural Station annexed to the School of Pomology of Pensa
Instructions météorologiques
Intensité de la lumière dans la serre de poulie au sovhoze "Industria"
Investigations sur la nature physiologique de la différence entre les plantes hivernales et printanières. I. Influence des facteurs du milieu sur le développement des plantes d'hiver et de printemps
Ivanovo U.E.G.M.S.
Izdatetl'stvo Akad. Nauk. S.S.S.R.
Klima und Boden in ihrer Wirkung auf das Pflanzenleben [Climate and soil in their effect on plant life]
Klima und Landschaft in Tripolitanien [Climate and landscape in Tripolitania]
Klima und landwirtschaftliche Bodenkultur in Starkenburg und Rheinhessen [Climate and agricultural soil culture in Starkenburg and Rheinhessen]
Klima, Boden und Holzarten an der Wald- und Baumgrenze in einzelnen Gebieten Tirols
Klima- und Vegetations-Gliederung in Deutschland [Climate and vegetation classification in Germany]
Klimaat, klimaattykes, klimaatgebieden, Bodemproductie, Bevolkung [Climate, climatic types, climatic regions, agriculture and population]
Klimat Rostovskoi oblasti i Krasnodarskogo Kraia
Klimat USSR, Zakhodniai Belarusi i sumezhnykh krain [Climate of Byelorussia and its neighboring regions]
Klimat i zhizn' [Climate and life]
Klimati zhisn' [Climate and life]
Korrelationsanalyse des Temperatur- und Feuchtigkeitsverlaufes in extrem verschiedenen Böden und in der bodennahen Luft [An analysis of the correlation of temperature and humidity curves in differing soils and in the air near the ground]
Kurs sil's'logospodarchoi meteorologii. Pt. 1 [Course of agricultural meteorology]
L'atmosphère et l'agriculture [The atmosphere and agriculture]
L'homme et la forêt
La agricultura y el clima [Agriculture and climate]
La date d'ensemencement au printemps en C.C.O.
La forme des végétaux et le milieu [Plant forms and their environmental conditions]
La geografía de Chile y la agricultura [The geography of Chile and agriculture]
La lutte contre les gelées tardives aux vergers
La meteorología al servicio de la agricultura. Relaciones bioclimáticas de los principales cultivos [Meteorology in the service of agriculture. Bioclimatic relationships of the principal crops]
La météorologie et l'agriculture
La prévision du temps en agriculture
La technique des essais culturaux et des études d'écologie agricole [Technique of agricultural experiments and of studies of agricultural ecology]
Landbrugsmeteorologiske korrelationsundersøgelser [Agricultural meteorological correlation studies]
Landwirtschaftlicher Wasserbau [Agricultural hydrology]
Le climat de Lyon et de la région lyonnaise [The climate of Lyons and of the Lyons region]
Le climat du blé dans le monde: Les bases écologiques de la culture mondiale du blé
Le climat en relation avec les cultures agricoles et les fleuves de la région Ivanova-Voznesensky
Le milieu et la société (Principes cyno-écologoques)
Lehrbuch der Bäder- und Klimaheilkunde
Les méthodes et les matériaux des études de la dynamique hydrologique du sol
Les observations météorologiques en kolhozes
Les relations entre la végétation française et le climat
Les semailles précoces en C.C.O.
Les sols et le climat méditerranéens en France
Letopisi po sel'skokho-ziāîstvennoî meteorologii [Annals on agricultural meteorology]  [Vol. 1]
Letopisi po sel'skokho-ziāîstvennoî meteorologii [Annals on agricultural meteorology] [Vol. 2]
Letopisi po sel'skokho-ziāîstvennoî meteorologii [Annals on agricultural meteorology] [Vol. 3]
Letopisi po sel'skokho-ziāîstvennoî meteorologii [Annals on agricultural meteorology] [Vol. 4]
Lightning damage in fields
Los elementos climáticos y los cultivos [Climatic elements and crops]
Medical climatology: climatic and weather influences in health and disease
Meteorologia e climatologia, com applicações a agricultura [Meteorology and climatology, with applications to agriculture]
Meteorological statistics
Meteorology and agriculture
Meteorología agrícola [Agricultural meteorology]
Method of determining ground-water supplies based on discharge by plants and evaporation from soil. Results of investigations in Escalante Valley, Utah
Methods in climatology
Microclimate and local climate
Mikroklima und Pflanzenklima [Microclimate and plant climate]
Mirovoi agro-klimaticheskii spravochnik [World agro-climatic handbook]
Météorologie agricole et prévision du temps [Agricultural meteorology and weather forecasting]
Météorologie et physique agricoles [Meteorology and agricultural physics]
Météorologie et ses applications dans les pays tropicaux
North American orchards; their crops and some of their problems
Notes on climate and soil
Observations phénologiques de l'expedition de l'Académie des sciences d'U.R.S.S. en Jakutsk
Our weather
Perenos dlinnovolnovogo izlucheniia v atmosfere [Transfer of long wave radiation in the atmosphere]
Pflanzenphysiologie II, Kraftwechsel
Photosynthesis
Photosynthesis and related processes
Phototropic sensitivity in relation to wave length
Plant and animal nutrition in relation to soil and climatic factors
Plant growth in electric light
Plant growth in relation to wave-length balance
Plant physiological meteorology
Plants and environment
Plants and plant science in Latin America
Preliminary observations on growth and phototropic response of oat seedlings
Principes théoriques de l'acclimatisation
Principles of agrobiology. Or, the laws of plant growth in relations to crop production
Prirodnye usloviiā Severo-Kavkazskogo Kraiā i organizatsiiā krest'iānskogo khoziāistva [Natural conditions of North-Caucasus Region and organization of the farmer's economy]
Proceedings of the 6th Pacific Science Congress of the Pacific Science Association (Berkeley, California)
Proceedings of the 7th annual Meeting of the American Farm Economic Association
Proceedings of the All-Russian Congress on Botany Leningrad
Programme – instruction pour les observations phénologiques
Protection of forests and agricultural crops against wind
Protokolle der Tagung in Danzig 28–31 August 1935 [Transactions of the session at Danzig August 28–31, 1935]
Prévision du rendement du blé d'apres les éléments météorologiques [Survey of the wheat yields in connection with meteorological factors]
Prévision du rendement du blé d'après éléments météorologiques [Forecasting the yield of wheat according to meteorological conditions]
Relations between the meteorological character of the seasons and the yields of wheat in the north-western quarter of France
Report of the Agricultural Meteorological Conference in London
Reports of the Conference on Agricultural Meteorology  in London 1930
Reports of the Conference on Agricultural Meteorology in London
Reports of the Conference on Agricultural Meteorology in London 1930
Reports of the Conference on Agricultural Meteorology in London 1931
Reports of the Conference on Agricultural Meteorology in London 1933
Reports of the Conference on Agricultural Meteorology in London 1935
Reports of the Conference on Agricultural Meteorology in Lonon 1930
Reports of the conferences on cycles
Sborn. rabot po genetik. i selecc. tabaka
Schwankungen des Grundwasserstandes in Norddeutschland während der letzten Jahrzehnte, ihre Ursachen und ire limnologische, geologische und wirtschaftliche Bedeutung
Science and farming: Yearbook of the U.S. Department of Agriculture 1943–47
Seedtime and harvest: a graphic study of seasonal work on farm crops
Segalas, Levezou, Chatagineraie
Sel'skokhaziāistvennaiā Meteorologiiā [Agricultural Meteorology]
Sel'skokhoziāistvennaiā meteorologiiā [Agricultural meteorology]
Sericultural meteorology
Severn. psenicn. baza S.S.S.R.
Solar radiation and soil temperature
Studies of the ecology of coffee plantations in East Africa. I. – The climate and eco-climate of coffee plantations
Studies of the effects of storage temperature on the propagation value of potato tubers
Study on industrial meteorology [Ser. 1 and 2]
Study on industrial meteorology [Ser. 3 and 4]
Survey of biological progress
Sverdlovsk. Bjur Krajeveden. Fenolog. Sekt.
The Agricultural Register 1934–35
The Gold Coast forest: a study in synecology
The National Meteorological Institute of Poland. Organisation of the Central Meteorological Bureau, The Aerological Observatory, the Maritime Observatory and magnetic station
The air and its ways
The bases of estimating hail damage to crops
The calculation of heat transmission
The climatic factor as illustrated in arid America
The cotton plant in Egypt. Studies in physiology and genetics
The cycles that cause the present drought [book]
The dependance of carbon dioxide assimilation in a higher plant on wave length of radiation
The ecological framework of wheat in Brazil
The green leaf: The major activities of plants in sunlight
The influence of climate on agriculture in Thuringia
The influence of weather on crops
The physical properties of soil
The plant in relation to water
The production of tobacco
The relation between sugar crops and weather
The soil: its nature, relations, and fundamental principles of management
The temper­ature of the soil in Athens
The theoretical basis of vernalisation
Till kännedomen om klimatet i skogen och andra växtsamhällen (De la connaissance du climat des forêts et d'autres associations végétales)
Tobacco substation at Windsor: report for 1935
Traité élémentaire de météorologie
U.S. Department of Agriculture Yearbook 1901
U.S.S.R. Glavnoe Upravlenie Gidrometeorologicheskoi Sluzhby. Trudy Naucho-issledovatel'skikh Uchrezhdenii
Ultraviolet radiation
Un calendrier de la nature et de la chasse du rayon d'ouest (U.R.S.S.)
Un calendrier phénologique pour la défence d'un verger. Le pommier et le poirier
Un manuel des observations sur l'influence des conditions météorologiques sur le développement et la productivité des abeilles
Un programme pour les observations phénologiques
Une rétention de la couche de neige est un facteur pour les grands rendements des cultures agricoles
Ungewöhnliche Steige des Grundwassers und Überschwemmung in Senken ohne sichtbaren Abfluss
Untersuchungen über den Wärmehaushalt der Erdatmosphäre und seine thermodynamische Bedeutung [Investigations on the heat balance of the earth's atmosphere and its thermodynamic significance]
Untersuchungen über den Wärmehaushalt der Erdoberfläche in verschiedenen Klimagebieten [Investigations of the heat economy of the earth's surface in various climatic regions]
Vernalization and photoperiodism
Vernalization and photoperiodism – a symposium
Vernalization and photoperiodism. A symposium
Versuche über den Einfluss der Höhenlage auf Ertrag und Gehalt einiger Arzneipflanzen
Vopros. Chranen. Tabach. Semjan.
Wartime Developments in Applied Climatology
Wave lengths of radiation in the visible spectrum inhibiting the germination of light-sensitive lettuce seed
Wave-lengths of radiation in the visible spectrum promoting the germination of light-sensitive lettuce seed
Weather and hazards of agriculture
Weather and man
Weather conditions and thermal belts and fruit growing in North Carolina: thermal belts from the horticultural viewpoint
Weather wisdom in agriculture with hints on forecasting
Wetter, Klima, Leben: Anregungen und Aufgaben für physikalisch-geographisch-biologische Arbeitsgemeinschaften und für Landheimunterricht [Weather, climate, life]
Wetterkunde für Gärtner, Weinbauern und Landwirte [Meteorology for the gardener, vinegrower and farmer]
Wetterkunde und Landwirtschaft [Meteorology and agriculture]
Wetterkundlicher Wegweiser für Landwirt, Obstbauer, Gärtner, Winzer und Meteorologen [Meteorological guidance for farmers, fruit growers, gardeners, windegrowers and meteorologists]
Wetterschäden und Landwirtschaft in den Vereinigten Staaten von Amerika [Weather damage and agriculture in the United States of America]
With relation to the division of European Russia into geographical regions
Yearbook of agriculture. Climate and man
Yearbook of the U.S. Department of Agriculture 1900
Yearbook of the U.S. Department of Agriculture 1904
Yearbook of the U.S. Department of Agriculture 1920
Yearbook of the U.S. Department of Agriculture 1921
Yearbook of the U.S. Department of Agriculture 1924
Yearbook of the U.S. Department of Agriculture 1926
Yearbook of the U.S. Department of Agriculture 1929
Yearbook of the U.S. Department of Agriculture 1930
Yearbook of the U.S. Department of Agriculture 1934
Z dziejów Stacji Uprawy Torfowisk Politechniki Lwowskiej w Dublanach [On the history of the station for peat culture at Dublany]
Zarys klimatologii Ślaska [A sketch of the climatology of Silesia]
Zemlede'cheskii Afganistan [Agricultural Afghanistan]
Ziraat meteorolojisi [Agricultural meteorology]
Zur Geographie des Maisbaues [The geography of corn growing]
