The importance of soil temperature in agriculture is due both to the beneficial effects of heat in the seed bed and to the destructive effects of frosts upon growing crops. The process of germination will not begin in most cultivated crops until a temperature of 42° or more has been reached and maximum results are attained when the temperature of the soil reaches 68° or 70°. Heat is also necessary to weaken the forces which hold together the food constituents in the soil before they become available for the use of the plant. Nitrification will not take place with the soil temperature below 40°, and is most vigorous at 98°. Again, the osmotic pressure by which the plant food is taken into the plant and forced through the stem to its farthest branch and leaf, is made more effective by heat. On the other hand low temperatures, and especially frost, often cause incalculable damage to vegetation.Purely local conditions have such a decided influence upon the temperature near the surface of the ground that the effects are apparent to the most casual observer. A heavy frost often occurs over one portion of ground while another portion in close proximity, but under different influences will be entirely free from frost. The local differences in temperature in clear weather with light winds are sufficient to be sensible to a person passing from place to place, especially over hills and valleys.With the importance of soil temperature in view, and the influence of local conditions so apparent, a few observations were made to determine approximately the effects of some of these local conditions expressed in degrees Fahrenheit.The first series of observations was made to determine the amount of variation in temperature due to elevation. A low swale surrounded by hills was chosen. Two minimum thermometers were placed on the bare ground, one at the lowest point in the swale and the other on the hilltop about 15 feet above. All conditions, except the elevation, were made as nearly as possible alike. The minimum temperatures, recorded on six clear, still nights in January, were as follows:_table_The table shows, first, that the newly cultivated soil was 6° warmer at the surface of the ground than the uncultivated; second, that the temperature 3 3 inches below the surface was 5.5° higher on the uncultivated soil. These facts show that the newly cultivated soil conducts heat much more slowly than the uncultivated, probably because it is less compact. The amount of evaporation from each is probably about the same for a short time after cultivation, hence this can not be considered as a cause of the difference in temperature. When cultivation is carried on continuously, the surface of the soil is warmer, and the first few inches below the surface cooler, than upon the same soil uncultivated; while at a depth of 6 inches the cultivated soil has the same or a higher temperature than the uncultivated. These are all desirable conditions during the growing season. The warmer surface soil hastens the process of growth in the plant and is a protection against frost. The soil just below the surface being cooler, retards capillarity and thereby retains the soil moisture, while the temperature about the roots of the plant 5 or 6 inches below the surface is the same or a little higher than on the uncultivated soil. The plan of cultivating the soil about growing crops during the afternoon of a day when the conditions are favorable for frost at night is often recommended, and the table shows that there is much to be gained by so doing. the temperature at the surface of the cultivated soil was 3° higher than on the uncultivated at 2.30 a. m., hence the danger of frost was materially lessened. The heat absorbed duirng the day is held near the surface of the ground in the cultivated soil, instead of being conducted to lower depths, and the air becomes more moist from the rapid evaporation at the surface, which is a condition unfavorable for the occurrence of frost._table_These averages show a difference of 4° between low ground with and without air drainage. It so happened that the average of the three readings in the low swale was slightly below the freezing point, while that of the air-drained area was amply above and nearly as high as the average on the hilltop.A third set of readings was made to determine the effect of vegetation upon the temperature of the surface of the ground on which it was growing. Three minimum thermometers were used, the first being placed on naked soil, the second on the surface of the ground in clover about 2.5 inches high, and the third in grass 6 inches high. The table below shows the remarkable variation in temperature due to the growth of vegetation._table_The average temperature was over 4° lower in the clover and nearly 10° lower in the grass than on the bare ground. These differences in temperature seem incredibly large, but the observations were carefully made and all conditions surrounding the thermometers, except the covering of vegetation, were the same; hence this one element must have been the real cause of the wide variation. In cool weather live stock invariably seeks bare ground to lie down upon, and the above table shows the advantage in so doing. The bare ground absorbs more heat during the day and radiates less heat at night than does the surface covered with vegetation, and hence it is much warmer. Then, too, much more heat is used up in the process of evaporation from plants than from the naked soil. To demonstrate the fact that more water evaporates from soil on which plants are growing, three small tin cups were filled with loam. The first contained simply the soil, the second was filled with the same soil thickly covered with grass about 2 inches high, and the third the same kind of soil in which were growing 12 wheat plants about 10 inches high. Enough water was added each day for ten consecutive days to saturate the soil, the amount being measured by means of a graduated glass tube. The water evaporated from the naked soil was 43 grams; from the grass-covered soil, 72 grams; and from the soil containing wheat, 84 grams, or nearly twice the amount evaporated from the bare soil. The heat used up in evaporating this large amount of water would be sufficient to lower the temperature of the soil several degrees.Carrying the observations further, it was found that the temperature variations were more dependent upon the height of the plants and their thickness over the surface of the ground than upon the kind of plant. One thermometer was placed in grass about 2 inches high, another in clover about the same height, and a third in grass 8 inches high. The results showed practically no differences between the readings of the first two thermometers, but the third averaged 4° lower.Even the color of the plant was shown to have an influence upon the temperature. A frost was noticed on one portion of a lawn while another portion of the same lawn was free from it. The portion free from frost was a light-colored June grass, while that on which the frost occurred was a very dark-colored meadow fescue. the lawn was newly mown and the grass everywhere about the same height. Apparently the only cause for one portion having frost and the other not was the color of the grass. The thermometers were carefully placed on the two plots under as nearly similar conditions as possible, and readings were taken each half hour during the night. The temperature averaged over one degree higher on the lighter colored grass. The minimum reached on the dark colored grass was 39°, while 40.5° was the lowest recorded on the light colored grass. Another thermometer was placed on a hard, gravel roadbed near by and read with the other thermometers. this averaged about 10° higher than the one in the dark grass.The temperature at the surface of the ground is also greatly influenced by the color of the soil. Temperatures taken on dark colored muck, a lighter colored loam, and a very light clay during an afternoon in summer were, respectively, 110°, 101.5°, and 97°. Readings were also taken early the next morning, and the corresponding temperatures were 61.5°, 60°, and 63.5°.Another important difference in temperature was observed to result from cultivation. temperatures were taken on soil that had been newly cultivated for seeding and upon soil that had not been worked for several days. Thermometers were placed at the surface of the ground, and at 3, 6, and 12 inches below the surface. these were read at 2:30 p. m. and 2:30 a. m. the following day. The readings are given in the table below:_table_The table shows, first, that the newly cultivated soil was 6° warmer at the surface of the ground than the uncultivated; second, that the temperature 3 inches below the surface was 5.5° higher on the uncultivated soil. These facts show that the newly cultivated soil conducts heat much more slowly than the uncultivated, probably because it is less compact. The amount of evaporation from each is probably about the same for a short time after cultivation, hence this can not be considered as a cause of the difference in temperature. When cultivation is carried on continuously, the surface of the soil is warmer, and the first few inches below the surface cooler, than upon the same soil uncultivated; while at a depth of 6 inches the cultivated soil has the same or a higher temperature than the uncultivated. These are all desirable conditions during the growing season. The warmer surface soil hastens the process of growth in the plant and is a protection against frost. the soil just below the surface being cooler, retards capillarity and thereby retains the soil moisture, while the temperature about the roots of the plant 5 or 6 inches below the surface, is the same or a little higher than on the uncultivated soil. The plan of cultivating the soil about growing crops during the afternoon of a day when the conditions are favorable for frost at night is often recommended, and the table shows that there is much to be gained by so doing. The temperature at the surface of the cultivated soil was 3° higher than on the uncultivated at 2:30 a. m., hence the danger of frost was materially lessened. The heat absorbed during the day is held near the surface of the ground in the cultivated soil, instead of being conducted to lower depths, and the air becomes more moist from the rapid evaporation at the surface, which is a condition unfavorable for the occurrence of frost.In conclusion, the temperature at the surface of the ground has been shown to be markedly dependent upon local conditions. Many of these local conditions are under the control of man, and a better understanding of them would result in beneficial returns to the agriculturist.



There is probably no higher authority on the relations of plants to light than Professor Julius Wiesner of the University of Vienna. He has, during many years, published important papers on this general subject, and in 1907 he set forth the principal results of his researches in his Lichtgenuss der Pflanzen, W. Englemann, Leipzig. As there are few important topics in plant physiology of which most of us know as little as we do about the amount of light needed by plants for successful life and growth, it may be worth while to sum up for the readers of The Plant World a few of Wiesner's statements and to comment on some of them.The author defines the term Lichtgenuss as meaning substantially the light-requirement of any given species of plant. The relative light-requirement signifies the fraction of the total amount of light in any particular region which will enable the plant in question to thrive there. For example, if a plant will flourish in the evergreen woods of the Adirondack region with one-third of the total light which falls on unshaded areas there, its light requirement is 1-3. It is noteworthy that as a rule the light-requirement increases in the higher latitudes. Acer platanoides, which in Vienna, lat. 48.12 deg. N., has a light-requirement ranging from 1 to 1-55, in Tromso, Norway, lat. 69.50 deg. N.,has a requirement of from 1 to 1-5.Evidently, as the author remarks, the introduction of light-measurements, even if at first they may be somewhat crude initiates a decided advance over the plan of describing the habitat of a species as sunny, partially sunny, shaded, or deeply shaded. Every such extension of our knowledge of plants makes one long for an ecological flora of his own locality. Impracticable for extensive regions, such a flora could be worked out for a limited area in such a way as to include most of the things best worth knowing about the commoner seed plants treated. It might cover their light, heat, and moisture requirements, their relation to soil composition, to animal and plant parasites, and to pollinating insects. Much attention should be paid to the influence of these factors of the environment in causing variations. Who now knows all of these details that might be learned about any single species?One of the chief difficulties in the way of getting an accurate knowledge of the light-relations of plants is that it is very difficult to determine with reasonable accuracy the amount and kind of light which they daily and yearly receive. Notwithstanding the existence of good photometers for the physicist and so many kinds of sensitive paper which will give some kind of measurement of relative light intensity, there is no instrument which measures illuminations as promptly and accurately as the thermometer measures relative temperatures. As is well known the light from different portions of the spectrum affects the plant very differently. Apparently, transpiration is most favored by blue light, heliotropic movement by light from the portion of the spectrum between violet and ultra violet, photosynthesis by light from the red to the yellow portion. Blue and ultra violet light are necessary to the healthy growth of green plants, serving to prevent excessive growth and etiolation. It is evident then, that sensitized paper which is acted on by only a few kinds of rays is not a satisfactory measure of the value of any given illumination for plants. If, however, we know that the light which they receive in any particular case is merely weakened sunlight, with the several regions of the spectrum all proportionally represented, we may fairly make use of ordinary photographic paper for our measurements. It will then benecessary to standardize the paper in some way in order to know what fractional part of the full sunlight the area, plant, or part of a plant under consideration is at the time of observation receiving. These questions of photometric methods and of nature and intensity of daylight are fully discussed in the two sections of Wiesner's work.*One of our author's important contributions to the general subject of light-relations of plants, discussed in detail in earlier works and briefly outlined in his Lichtgenuss, is the classification of leaves with reference to their utilization of light. Those which show no fixed relation to the incidence of light, such as pine needles, are classed as aphotometric. Those which show some relation, either fixed or adjustable, are photometric. Of the latter class there are two divisions, euphotometric leaves, and panphotometric leaves. Good examples of the euphotometric class are those in the interior of the crown of most deciduous trees. These exercise the greatest economy of light and are so placed as to receive as much diffused light as possible. If they are borne by plants which grow in the shade of forest trees (not on the margins of woods) they extend almost horizontally to get the maximum amount of the light which filters through the leaves above them. Panphotometric leaves show the most complex adaptations of any, since they can ward off some direct sunlight by exposing their edges to it, but offer a much greater surface for the absorption of diffused light. Such leaves as those of Robinia Pseudo-Acacia and Phaseolus, which meet the varying illumination of different periods of the day with ratherprompt changes of position are in the highest degree panphotometric.For botanists in general the most suggestive part of Wiesner's book and the one to which reference will oftenest be made, is the fourth section, which deals with the light-requirement of the plants of some of the principal physiographical regions, as steppes, deserts, tundra and tropical forests. It also takes up the light-relations of a few of the great groups of plants and gives in a good deal of detail the author's values for the light-requirement of many species, mostly of seed plants.The lowest light-requirement of any kind of plant reported on (which needs light at all) is that of some lichens. Thesegrow, but do not fruit, in lower Austria, with a light-require of 1-156. Most lichens of that general region find their optimum in an illumination of 1-10 to 1-20.Most grasses are sun-loving plants and many species have a light requirement closely approaching unity. Some shade-tolerating species, however, were found in Austria to vegetate, but not to fruit, in an illumination of 1-60 to 1-70 and tropical species in Java grew in an illumination of 1-100.Many plants which form the herbaceous carpet of the forest floor under deciduous trees have a light-requirement which varies greatly at different seasons. Such species push forward their flowering and fruiting either before the trees are in leaf, or, at any rate, while the leaves are still very small. The foliage often grows and does photometric work the summer through, under a greatly lessened illumination. Hepatica triloba is given by Wiesner as a typical example of this change of requirement, generally blooming, near Vienna, in an illumination of 1-2 to 1-3 but continuing its later growth normally with 1-15. It is a fact familiar to botanical observers in regions where the European ivy, Hederá Helix, grows freely as a wild plant that it blossoms and fruits only in well lighted places and there takes on a very different habit from that which it manifests in the shade. Near Vienna and about Trieste it blooms with a light-requirement of 1 to 1-4.5, but grows well with as little illumination as 1-48. It should be noted that plants growing under trees almost never get the total illumination of the region throughout the whole day, even when the trees are bare. The value of the illumination in leafless beech forests in April was found to be 1-1.5 to 1-2, and in the shadows of the tree trunks as low as 1-6 of the total outside of the forest cover.As might be expected, epiphytes, whether vascular cryptogams or seed plants, often have a very low light-requirement. The well-knowrn epiphytic fern, Asplenium Nidus, grows at Buitenzorg, Java, in illuminations as low as 1-38. An orchidaceous epiphyte, Taeniophyllum , common in the same locality, grows in illuminations as low as 1-32 and blossoms in those of 1-5 to 1-8.Practical foresters have long known that there is much difference in the power of various kinds of timber trees to endure shade. Beech, maple, and red spruce, among American trees, are tolerant of shade, while most oaks, hickories, chestnut, and larch are intolerant. Wiesner gives many valuable data in regard to the relative light-requirement of temperate European and American and of arctic and tropical trees. A remarkable instance of gradual adaptation of a leaf during itsdevelopment to increasing light intensity is displayed by Amherstia nobilis, a beautiful Caesalpiniaceous tree which flourishes in the garden at Buitenzorg. The young leaves are flacid and almost colorless, evidently containing little chlorophyll. They hang vertically downward and are greatly sheltered by the older leaves. Little by little they become firmer and assume a green color, until at length they can withstand the full glare of the tropical sun. Apparently the fully developed ones in some instances receive about five hundred times as much light as the youngest and most protected ones.Summing up a few of the good and bad points of Professor Wiesner's book, it may be said to contain more detailed and authoritative information upon the light relations of plants than any other single work. It is extremely interesting and suggestive of many lines of investigation for the plant physiologists of all countries. On the other hand it does not seem to be well arranged for reference, the topics discussed are not treated with regard to their relative scientific importance, and the index is most inadequate. A brief glossary would have aided the reader who is not familiar with the author's other writings on this general topic, but none is given. It would seem to many botanists that Wiesner, in trying to fix the light minimum for the species studied, has too readily assumed that when a plant does not grow well or grow at all on the forest floor or in the shade of other shrubs or herbs it fails to flourish wholly because of the shade. Lack of water or of nutritive salts or even deleterious substances given off by the roots of the trees may at times figure as factors in the problem.* The reader who is desirous of looking up the literature of this subject will find sufficient references for the purpose in Pfeffer's Physiology of Plants, Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1900-1906, and in Burgerstein's Die Transpiration der Pflanzen, Jena, 1904.

It is doubtful if the average person grasps the enormity of the waste that has been, and is still being caused, in our great forests, which form a large portion of our northern woodlands. In order to acquire a true conception of the situation it is necessary for one to travel through the forests, noting the extent of the areas burned over and the damage that has been done, and to study forest fire statistics.While no fires of really great extent have occurred in the Lake States in late years, the great Minnesota fire of October 12, 1918, stands out as an example of what might happen again if it were not for the eternal vigilance of the fire protection organizations; and there are times, when weather conditions go against them, that they are almost helpless. This great conflagration was the result of several factors operating in unison. The summer of 1918 in Minnesota was dry and warm, causing the grasses and other small vegetation on the forest floor to dry out and die much earlier than usual. This was followed by a dry autumn, which increased the fire hazard tremendously. Minnesota has much swamp land, and most of the swamps are filled with peat. There are more than 5,000,000 acres of peat land in Minnesota, of which a large portion had been drained prior to 1918. Therefore, when the drouth of that year developed these peat lands dried out and became the chief source of trouble. Fire in peat is exceedingly difficult to extinguish. Some peat fires have been known to burn from one summer to another, even under a heavy covering of snow during the intervening winter. It so happened in 1918 that the State Forest Service of Minnesota lacked sufficient funds to meet this emergency, due largely to political dissension among State officials and legislators. This was exceedingly unfortunate. Many small fire were started in the peat lands that were not extinguished because of this lack of funds and personnel. These fires smouldered along until there came a day, October 12, with clear sky, low relative humidity, mild temperature and, fresh southwest winds. Then these smouldering fires spread, picked up momentum, merged into one great fire - the greatest of record in this country - and swept on, destroying nearly every living thing in its path. It traveled at great speed, and created winds powerful enough to pull up by the roots large trees. It swept over nearly a million acres in one afternoon and the early part of the following night, snuffed out the lives of nearly 1,000 human beings, killed thousands of domestic and game animals and birds, and destroyed probably $75,000,000 worth of forests and property. The city of Duluth had a very narrow escape, being saved principally by a high range of hills in the rear that parallel the shores of the lake and the bay. This great conflagration is mentioned as an example of what can happen in the northern woodlands when weather conditions are just right.Since weather conditions play a major role in forest fire protection and suppression, it therefore follows that if the forest protective organizations know what to expect in weather for even a day or two in advance that they will be in a position to act on a given situation to better advantage. Therefore, the fire-weather service in the Lake States was created to supply a demand, voiced by the fire protection organizations, for weather forecasts and other weather information that might help them in combatting this red scourge that has cost so many millions of dollars in money, and taken so many thousands of lives of human beings and denizens of the wild.The project was started in Minnesota during the summer of 1926. From a modest beginning in 1926 the service has been gradually expanded. It was organized in Wisconsin and upper Michigan in 1927 and 1928, and in lower Michigan in 1928. It now covers all of the principal forested lands in the three States, embracing nearly 60,000,000 acres. There are now 33 substations scattered throughout the fire-weather district. These substations are the eyes of the service, so to speak. Most of them are located at the headquarters offices of the State district rangers and wardens, and are about 40 to 60 miles apart from each other. Each station is equipped with a maximum and a minimum thermometer, a rain gage, a sling psychrometer, and an anemometer, and some of them are supplied with hygrographs. Observations are made three times a day, at 8 a. m., noon, and 5 p. m., central standard time, and are usually begun about the 1st of April and continued until about the 31st of October. The headquarters of the service is now located at Chicago, having been transferred from Duluth, Minn., on November 1, 1928.During the fire season about 25 selected fire-weather stations telegraph reports to Chicago once a day, immediately following the 8 a. m. observation. These reports show what kind of weather has prevailed during the 24-hour period ending at 8 a. m., and give an estimate made by the observer of the degree of fire hazard existing in the forest in the vicinity of the station. The data from these reports are entered on a special outline map, and give a good birds-eye view of conditions existing throughout the district. Particular attention is given to the relative humidity, in connection with the temperature, sunshine, wind movement and rainfall. All these elements are factors in evaporation, and consequently in fire hazard. It may be readily seen that estimation of the degree of fire hazard existing at a given time, and an estimate of what it will be one or two days in advance is a very complicated problem. Not only do the weather factors have to be considered, but thought has to be given to the condition of the forest fuels, which are gradually changing throughout the season, and which are many and variable in kind and character. No single instrument has yet been devised that will give a reliable estimate of the degree of existing hazard. The duff hygrometer, an instrument devised to measure the moisture content of duff and litter on the forest floor has not proved to be successful. The evaporimeter does not give a good index either, since the evaporation that is measured by it is produced in an artificial manner that is not comparable to the manner in which evaporation takes place from forest fuels. Therefore, estimation of existing hazard is largely a matter of personal judgment formed after considering all of the factors involved, and opinions may vary considerably between two or more individuals on a given condition.When the daily fire-weather reports are received and entered on the map and it is indicated that fire-weather warnings are in order, warnings are made and dispatched to the men in the field as soon as possible, usually about 9.30 a. m. A typical warning as issued for the field would read about as follows:Fair Friday and probably Saturday; temperature near 90°; humidity 25 to 35 per cent; gentle to moderate southerly winds becoming southwest by Saturday; high to extreme hazard.Warnings are telegraphed to sections only where the fire hazard so warrants, and as a rule, the State district rangers and wardens, the superintendents of the State forests, and the supervisors of the national forests are the persons that receive them. Warnings are telegraphed to about 55 points scattered throughout the forested area. The men that receive these warnings by telegraph relay them by telephone to their principal assistants in the field, so that all of the men that have charge of fire protection and suppression work are supplied with this information. The warnings also are broadcast by radio from several stations in or near the forested regions, and are printed in several newspapers aa well.Although particular attention has been given to relative humidity in determining fire hazard, it is doubtful if relative humidity is a more important factor in this connection than temperature. It seems that pioneers in fire-weather investigation, even up to the present time, have overstressed the importance of relative humidity in proportion to temperature in estimating fire hazard. The writer has recently performed some research work in this connection to determine the relationship of relative humidity and temperature to the inception of forest fires. This investigation disclosed the fact that relative humidity and temperature bear practically equal weight on fire hazard, and that these two factors are embodied in the depression of the wet-bulb thermometer of a whirled psychrometer in such a manner that the fire hazard seems to be directly proportional to the change in the wet-bulb depression, other factors being equal. This throws into discard the theory that fire hazard is proportional to the change in depression of the dew point, an idea that seemed to be substantiated by preliminary investigation.Inception of forest fires, when plotted on a graph against relative humidity, temperature and depression of the wet bulb, have a well defined range. Out of 2,000 fires plotted it was found that only one fire started with temperature below 39°, and that none started when the relative humidity was above 80 per cent. It is also a fact that not a single fire broke out when the wet-bulb depression was below 4°, and that all the fires had started by the time a wet-bulb depression of 26° was reached.The investigation indicated that the wet-bulb depression scale may be divided arbitrarily into rather definite zones of hazard. However, these zones of hazard, being predicated on average conditions, would naturally not apply all of the time. Higher than ordinary wind velocities and periods of drouth would tend to augment the hazard, while on the other hand, appreciable rainfall would tend to lower it, resulting in a shifting of the zones to higher and lower positions on the wet-bulb scale.The fire-weather forecasts are based largely upon the daily manuscript weather maps and the auxiliary pressure change and temperature change charts. There are several types of weather maps that may give rise to high fire hazard, but the most striking type is the one with a HIQH centered west or northwest of the fire-weather district and moving southeastward, followed by a LOW that moves eastward along the Canadian boundary or a little to the northward thereof. This type of map usually gives the lowest relative humidity, and is quite common in spring, April and May, when usually the lowest relative humidity readings occur. The relative humidity usually runs low within the confines of these HIGHS as they pass over the fire-weather district, and when they move in such a manner as to place the center of the HIGHS over the middle Mississippi and the Ohio valleys during the daytime, they often produce extremely low relative humidity readings on the days when such circumstances occur. Relative humidity readings as low as 11 per cent have been noted in May in Minnesota, and readings in the twenties are not at all uncommon in all three States under such conditions. These low relative humidity values are undoubtedly brought about by pressure conditions that allow rapid night radiation of temperature, followed the next day by a rapid rise, thus producing a great range in temperature during the day, and consequently unusually low relative humidity. Diurnal ranges in temperature of 45° to 50° have been noted in the forested areas of the north when favorable pressure distribution prevails.As a rule, more forest fires occur in the spring than during any other season of the year, due to the fact that there is then a plentiful supply of dead vegetation on the ground; the days are long, allowing much sunshine; the deciduous trees are leafless or nearly so, allowing the sunshine to strike the forest fuels and dry them out quickly; the relative humidity is at its lowest; and finally, there is usually plenty of wind movement to help dry out the fuels and fan the flames, once a fire is started. However, the year of 1930 proved an exception to the rule in this respect. The long, hot drouth in August and September caused an unusually severe summer fire season that was much more severe than the preceding spring fire season. Michigan and Wisconsin experienced this year one of the worst summer fire seasons, if not the worst, in the history of their respective forest services. The fall fire season is short, as a rule, due to the fact that the days are short and the nights are cold. The relative humidity may be low during the middle of the day in autumn, but only for a few hours, and it is nearly always high then at night, which, with the low night temperatures, is sufficient to either extinguish most ordinary fires, or to check them to such an extent that they may be easily extinguished. The forest rangers say that a cold night is worth the services of 100 or more men in putting out a big fire. While the fall fire season is short and usually less severe than the spring season, it is a singular fact that most of the great conflagrations of the north have occurred in autumn. However, these great fires have always followed drouthy summers.Fire protection in the Lake States is a problem that has to do largely with care exercised by man; therefore, to a large degree, it is an educational problem. Ninety-nine per cent of all forest fires that occurr in the Lake States are man-caused, either directly or indirectly. The other one per cent is caused by lightning. There are areas in the Western States where 35 to 50 per cent of the fires are caused by lightning, thereby creating a very difficult problem; but the number of lightning fires in the Lake States is so small that lightning is given no consideration in the forecasts. The number of fires that occur in the Lake States annually is very large, but of course varies considerably from year to year, depending on the weather. During 1929 about 6,500 fires occurred in these States, burning over about 450,000 acres. This year's totals are not yet available, but it appears that there were probably as many as 7,500 fires that burned over more than a half million acres. Such is the heavy toll exacted by fire, man's greatest friend, it has been said, but perhaps at the same time his greatest enemy.

Ah, bitter chill it was!The owl, for all his feathers was a-cold;The hare limp'd trembling through the frozen grass;And silent was the flock in woolly fold:T H E contrast between the effects of external cold upon the two kingdoms of living things suggested in this shivering picture is a characteristic one. The animal suffers the sensation of cold, but protects itself from actually freezing by greater heat-producing metabolism, within non-conducting coverings; while the plant, which has no such adaptations, cools down pari passu with the environment, and freezes solid.In our comfortable conviction that the plant, in so doing, suffers no agony of cold we may reserve our sympathies for our nearer brethren, but it will be a not unseasonable enquiry to consider in a general way the relation of plant-vitality to such low temperatures as occur normally in the winter months.I propose in this article, therefore, to give some account of the present state of our knowledge on this matter, which was materially advanced, not long ago, by the publication of the detailed results of Lidforss' investigations on the plants that remain green through the winter (the " winter-green " flora) in South Sweden.A critical account of the earlier literature upon the subject does not come within the scope of this article and we will begin with the pamphlet published by Molisch a dozen years ago and then pass to the work of Mez, 1905; Gorke, 1906; and Lidforss, 1907. The various works by Muller-Thurgau on this subject are of great importance, but published in 1880, 1882 and 1886, they are hardly recent enough for detailed notice.The well established fact that Yeast, Bacteria, and some moulds can withstand prolonged exposure to the cold of liquid hydrogen, teaches us that there is no primary essential injurious effect in chilling protoplasm.Nevertheless most sappy parts of the higher plants are killed by cooling much below O °C. We have to enquire what this injurious indirect effect of cold may be and why some plants are so much more resistant than others. One general secondary effect of cold is the formation of ice within the tissues of the plant, and another is alteration of the balance of the chemical changes that are going on in the cells. As a tertiary effect we have the dessication that results on withdrawing water as solid ice and this again might give rise to a quaternary class of effects due to the very concentrated solutions of the cell-constituents in which the protoplasm would be bathed in a partly frozen cell.To Molisch we owe the first direct observations, with microscope and freezing mixture, of the formation of ice in plants. He noticed that in the living plant ice-formation does not always take place immediately the temperature has fallen to the freezing point of the sap, which of course is below zero just in proportion to the amount of dissolved substances in it. Indeed he found a good parallel with the phenomena observed on freezing salt-solutions in general. Thus just as drops of water suspended in olive oil may be over- cooled many degrees below zero without ice-formation, till suddenly they solidify completely and the temperature rises to the true freezing point of water, so the hairs of Tradescantia stamens maybe cooled to —6.5 °C and then suddenly the cells fill with crystals of ice. Further as water in a fine capillary tube .3 mm. diameter resists freezing till it has been over-cooled to —10 °C so the capillary mycelium of Phycomyces may, in air, be cooled to —17 °C before ice is formed in it.It is exceptional for ice to form inside cells, and on cooling cells mounted in water, the outside water freezes first and then water is gradually withdrawn from within the cell to form more ice on the outside of the cell-wall. A filament of Spirogyra when frozen in this way is so shrunken, that under the microscope it looks exactly like a shrivelled dried-up thread. When tissues of higher plants are frozen, films of pure ice form on the walls abutting on inter-cellular spaces, and these films grow steadily to quite large lumps of ice causing disruption of the tissues.Muller-Thurgau and Molisch held that the fatal effect of this freezing should be traced to the resulting dessication of the proto-plasm whereby its structure was irrecoverably disorganised. As long as the ice-formation is staved off in sappy plants the cold does not kill. For sudden death on cooling ice-formation is essential, whether it acts as Molisch suggests straight upon the protoplasm, or only indirectly. The reverse is, of course, not at all true, as many plants recover readily after being frozen solid.Dominant by the authority of Sachs the erroneous view had long been held that it is only on the thawing of the cell that the fatal disorganisation sets in, and that if thawing proceeds very slowly recovery may take place which would not be attained with quick thawing. Molisch has ingeniously and finally demonstrated the complete incorrectness of these views. He cooled the red marine Alga Nitophyllum to —5 °C when it froze and on keeping it frozen the brilliant orange red fluorescence of the phycoerythrin in the cell soon became very obvious. In the living cell the pigment exhibits no fluorescence and this appearance is a sure sign of death. By similar treatment of the leaves of Ageratum mexicanum the odour of coumarin was soon developed, without any thawing having taken place, and this odour, which results from post-mortem ferment action within the cell, is also evidence of the death of the cell.Definite experiments made with a number of plants showed that only in one exceptional case, Agave, did the rate of thawing make any difference to the question of death or recovery.In 1905, Mez developed a different point of view. He thinks that death by "cold-dessication" is only exceptional, perhaps true only for water-plants and holds that protoplasm is directly susceptible to cold and that there is for each cell a fatal "minimum" temperature. Further, for plants which can stand the formation of ice in their tissues he thinks it is an advantage that in a cold environment (he worked with —14.5 °C experimentally) the ice should form as quickly as possible. The protective action of the ice lies in this, that conduction away of the plant-heat is not half as quick in solid ice as it is in a liquid or watery tissue. Consequently the inner parts are much longer in cooling to their fatal minimum.The formation of ice from sap in tissues leads to the liberation of the latent heat of the water and crystallising out of sugar from the sap would also generate heat. If these radiations were adequately isolated by non-conductors from the outside cold, the delay in cooling down to the minimum might be very considerable.Mez holds that the storing-up of sugars in the periderm of trees and in evergreen leaves (cf. Lidforss) is a preparation of substances which will give out a little protective warmth when concentrated to crystallisation by ice-formation. It is clear that these principles must be at work in the plant, but it is difficult to determine the magnitude of their biological significance.Mez shows clearly that when a sappy piece of tissue (he used largely the nodes of stems of Impatiens) is cooled down and its internal temperature registered by an imbedded thermo-junction it goes through the same phases as a solution of its constituent substances would. The falling temperature on cooling passes through a phase of separation of pure ice into a phase where the solutes have become so concentrated that they and the ice crystallise out at an equal rate. During this phase the temperature remains constant and only when it is over and the whole mass is frozen solid does the temperature once more fall.According to Mez this freezing temperature was never observed to be below —6 °C, so that in time "cold-dessication" should be complete at this temperature and the protoplasm should not suffer any more by further cooling, on the hypothesis that all the injury is simply due to dessication. This clearly goes against the view of Muller-Thurgau and Molisch, and we shall see in the work of Gorke that there are other ways in which withdrawal of water may injure the protoplasm besides direct dessication.In 1906, Gorke made experiments on changes in composition produced by freezing, either whole plants or their expressed sap, which brought to light a quite new factor. It is well known that the natural proteids can, by the addition of concentrated neutral salts to solutions of them, be "salted out" as precipitates, which at first can be redissolved on dilution but on standing become insoluble and "denatured." It occurred to Gorke that when the plant is frozen and water is withdrawn from the cell, the salts present must become more concentrated and might well in time act on the soluble proteids of the cell and cause their precipitation. This expectation was realised and he found that barley which has been put out at —7 °C for a night and been frozen solid, yields, on expression of its sap after thawing, a juice which contains only 2/3 of the amount of proteid in solution which the expressed sap of the unfrozen control culture of barley yielded.He went further and showed that the low temperature required to precipitate proteid from the expressed sap of different normal plants varied considerably; that it was mild in the case of those plants that suffered severely from cold, but that a very low temperature was required in the case of very resistant plants. Thus the freshly expressed sap of Begonia or Pelargonium (which are easily injured at —5 °C) yields a denatured precipitate of proteid at —3 °C, in time, while winter-rye is only precipitated at —15 °C and the sap of Pine needles not until —40 °C. The production of this effect will of course vary with the nature of the proteids present and also with the nature and amount of the salts present in addition. Gorke made up solutions of egg-albumin with mixtures of salts like those in the cell and found that after freezing to —20 °C there was a large and permanent precipitate. All this work deals with the soluble proteids of the cell, but one may reasonably transfer the idea to the structural proteids of protoplasm to account for the killing effect.It had been previously observed that on lowering the temperature of solutions of certain acids like tribasic phosphoric acid, the acidity slightly increases, so that more alkali is required to neutralise it, and that therefore a mixture with alkali, neutral at ordinary temperatures, would develop acidity on cooling. Gorke found that the sap of plants also shows an increased acidity on cooling, which would of course help in precipitation and denaturation of proteids at low temperatures.We will now pass to Lidforss' work on his Swedish winter-green flora. The plants which in mid-winter are to be found still bearing green leaves belong to a variety of ecological types. None of these appears to show any obvious adaptation for protection from winter cold, and perhaps the most interesting are those delicate herbaceous annuals which look so unfitted for winter existence — Holosteum, Cerastium, Lamium, Veronica, Senecio, Viola, Fumaria, etc. Even in the Arctic flora there is nothing protective to compete with the snug coatings of our feathered, furred and fleecy friends andKjellman concluded that protection from injury by frost must lie in the nature of the protoplasm.Lidforss has, however, established one general characteristic of all these plants in winter-time which does seem clearly to be protective. He finds that all winter-green leaves are quite free from starch but contain quantities of sugar (and sometimes oil) in the mesophyll. In the summer these same leaves contain abundant starch. This they regenerate in spring and if the plants are brought from the open into a warm room in mid-winter, starch is also usually soon regenerated from the sugar.The only exceptions which Lidforss found were the submerged water-plants like Elodea, Chara, which show starch all through the winter. The rule obviously does not break down on proof by the exception, for submerged plants are in an environment which will not fall below zero.Few of these winter-plants belong to Stahl's saccharophyllous class characterised by general absence of starch-formation, low transpiration rates and tolerance of dry soil, which lowness of transpiration is held to be a direct result of the high sugar-content of the evaporating sap of the mesophyll cells. In winter all soil is physiologically dry and the sugar might help to keep down the transpiration and avoid the evils of wilting, but Lidforss finds a much more direct advantage in its presence.He first demonstrated that the sugar in the cells does enable them to survive a lower temperature. This can be proved by the simple preliminary treatment of keeping cut leaves with their stalks in sugar solution (5-10% of any ordinary sugar) for a few days. Nerium and Viburnum Tinus are particularly good at taking up sugar in this way without becoming at all wilted.When these sugared leaves are exposed to a frost of —7 °C they remain uninjured, while controls that had been kept preliminarily alongside them in water are killed and show this by turning quickly brown by post-mortem oxidative changes.Most leaves exhibit this protective action of sugar more or less, the real difficulty is to get the sugar into the mesophyll cells.Not only leaves but seedlings of Helianthus, and roots of Vicia can be protected by intake of sugar. The last named material after 18 hours in 5% levulose survived four hours, frozen at —2 °C, while roots without sugar were all killed.Water plants fall into two sharply marked classes in this connection. Elodea, Chara, and Stratiotes, which in winter vegetate at the bottom of streams at a temperature just above zero, contain starch but no sugar and are killed on exposure to —2 °C or —4 °C. In contrast to these we find at the edge of the stream the submerged wintering stumps of the plants which vegetated above the water in the summer, such as Menyanthes, Ranunculus lingua, Myosotis, Sium. These have all converted their starch to sugar for the winter and in correlation it is found that a temperature of —7 °C is required to kill them.Another phenomenon which seems to be explained by Lidforss' work is the puzzling fact that many a plant which has survived the profound and prolonged cold of winter may be killed by a sharp night-frost in early spring (long before, of course, it has started any new growth). This is especially common when the night-frost is preceded by a spell of bright sunny radiation. The accepted explanation is that it is the quick change of temperature from warm day to cold night that injures, but all experimenters agree now that the rate of cooling or thawing makes very little difference.Lidforss finds that a succession of warm days in spring causes the regeneration of starch and holds that it is the disappearance of the protective sugar that makes the plant more susceptible. This is borne out by his observations that it is the well-sunned south side of trees like Ilex and Taxus that suffer in such weather and that here the sugar has gone, while the shaded north side of the tree still keeps its sugar and is uninjured by the spring frost.In Holosteum umbellatum a warm January day with a temperature of +5 °C starts the regeneration of starch and if a cold spell follows, it may revert to sugar.Warming up a leaf in a greenhouse for a week when, as sometimes happens in the early winter, it can be done without an appreciable fall in the sugar content, does not make the leaf more susceptible to cold, so that clearly it is not the direct effect of warmth that matters.In South Sweden the starch of vegetation gives place to sugar, rather quickly, in November, and remains thus till early or middle April when the reverse change takes place, but there the winter is more prolonged than in our climate.This brings us to Lidforss' theory of the protective action of sugar. It is simply this, that the presence of sugar retards the salting-out effect investigated by Gorke. Spiro had found that the presence of non-electrolytes, like alcohol, glycerine, sugars, etc., hinders the coagulation of proteids, and that indeed the presence of sugar may raise the heat-coagulation point of a given proteid from 59 °C to 85 °C.Lidforss found by experiment that the addition of 5% to a mixture of egg-albumen and dilute Knop's nutritive salt-solution much diminished the amount of proteid precipitate that ensued on freezing, and that 10% sugar prevented altogether such precipitation.Combining this with Gorke's experiments on freezing whole plants and actual expressed sap, it seems safe to transfer these effects observed in vitro to the living cell, and to accept this theory that the universal formation of sugar in winter-leaves acts as a distinct protection against winter cold.To prevent our deriving too great satisfaction from this interesting chain of reasoning, we may recall that two characteristic sugar-plants, the sugar-cane and the sugar-beet are both very susceptible to cold and that sugarless Bacteria on the contrary are very resistant. Of course the constitution or composition of the protoplasm will have the final word in this matter.We may now attempt to carry our enquiry a stage further and ask how it comes about that winter-leaves convert their starch to sugar.This phenomenon is not confined to leaves, but Russow and Fischer found that in most trees the periderm of the trunk contains sugar and oil in winter, in place of the starch present in summer.Potato tubers too kept at temperatures near zero are well known to turn sweet and unpalatable This interesting phenomenon was worked at with great insight and precision by Muller-Thurgau as long ago as 1882. He first shewed that sugar formation was not the result of injury by frost and that indeed it does not take place when the tuber is kept frozen hard, below —1 °C. At 0 °C the conversion of starch to sugar proceeds steadily, and potatoes stored upon ice may go on accumulating sugar for forty or fifty days. The accumulation begins slowly, and then proceeds faster and faster for a time, till it reaches somewhere about 3% of the fresh weight. Then the increase stops and the sugar content is maintained at about that amount. This we should consider as the result of the accumulation of the products of diastatic hydrolysis of starch hindering the further progress of the reaction (to speak statically). That the limit attained depends on the concentration of the sugar Muller showed by cooling potatoes which had been caused first to lose a lot of water by slow drying. These potatoes formed sugar to about the same concentration, and therefore to a less absolute amount than watery turgid tubers.If potatoes are kept at +3° the sugar content does not rise above -.5%, while at +6 °C hardly a trace of sugar is to be found. This phenomenon is then essentially a disturbance of metabolic balance due to low temperature. The amount of sugar at any moment depends partly on the diastatic activity and partly on the consumption of the sugar in respiration. As the temperature falls, the respiration will be much diminished, and this favours the accumulation of sugar. Diastatic activity is also diminished by cold, but the equilibrium point finally attained between starch and sugar is shifted towards the sugar by cold. Equilibrium points of reversible reactions are always shifted with fall of temperature in the direction of a greater concentration of the products of the exothermic direction of the reaction; that is, in this case, a greater concentration of sugar.On warming a sugary potato to 20 °C the sugar rapidly disappears, an increased portion of it is respired, and the rest reconverted to starch by another shifting of the equilibrium point, now in the opposite direction. We must not follow Muller's attempt to consider these factors quantitatively, but it is of interest that the balance of starch and sugar in these living cells of tubers, tree-trunks or winter-green leaves alters with temperature according to an established thermo-dynamical law. We cannot yet say to what extent physiological processes or biological adaptations are superposed upon this fundamental principle to produce so great an accumulation as to act as a satisfactory protection against winter frost.LITERATUREH. Muller-Thurgau. "Über das Gefrieren und Erfrieren der Pflanzen."                    Theil I., Landwirthschaftliche Jalirbücher. Bd. IX.                    1880. Theil II., ibid, Bd. XV., 1886."          "       "Über Zuckerhäufung in Pflanzentheilen in Folge                    niederer Temperatur." ibid, Bd. XI., 1882.H. Molisch. "Untersuchungen über das Erfrieren der Pflanzen." Jena, 1897.C. Mez. " Neue Untersuchunghen über das Erfrieren eisbeständiger Pflanzen,"                    Flora, Bd. XCIV., 1905.H. Gorke. "Über chemische Vorgänge beim Erfrieren der Pflanzen." Landwirthschaftlichen Versuchs-Stationen. Bd.                    LXV., 1906.B. Lidforss. "Die Wintergrüne Flora." Lunds Universitets. Arsskrift. Bd.                    II., No. 13, 1907.

The following statements, upon the basis of accepted facts, may be made as to the influence of light upon plants:1. Light exercises a direct chemical effect upon the substances of which protoplasm is composed. 2. It stimulates protoplasm to the formation of chlorophyll, although its action isnot necessary to the process, and its direct chemical effect disintegrates this substance.3. It constitutes a source of energy, which is absorbed by the chlorplasts.4. Absence of light constitutes a specific stimulus, calling out the various reactions of etiolation.5. Light acts as a directive or orienting stimulus to which the plant responds by locomotory or bending movements.6. Different portions of the spectrum are operative in producing these separate effects.If an examination is made of the facts upon which these generalizations rest, with reference to the current conceptions of phototonus, paratonic influence of light, maximum, minimum and optimum, it will be found that illumination is not necessary to the motility of protoplasm, and conversely that deprivation of light does not induce a condition of rigor, but sets up various pathological phenomena, among which is the breaking down of chlorophyll.Light does not exert a paratonic or retarding effect upon growth. Its chemical action may hinder the accumulation of somatic material however. The altered development of plants in darkness is an adaptive response which has for its purpose the elevation of the chlorophyll screen and reproductive bodies.Chemical, photosynthetic and phototropic maxima, minima and optima are so widely separated that phototonus as a term to designate the condition of a plant when acted upon by light of an optimum intensity, or of an intensity between the maxima and minima, is useless and untenable, as are alsolight optimum, maximum and minimum when applied in generality to the light relations of the plant.

It is well-known that in vegetating plants of Indian corn, wheat and other cereals, the firstnode of the stem is found near the surface of the ground, regardless of the depth at which the seed was planted. If the seed is deeply planted, the hypocotyl elongates above the seed proportionally lifting the node almost to the surface. If the seed is planted shallow, on the other hand, the node is found at about the same depth.That the checking of the elongation of the hypocotyl is due to the influence of light is strikingly shown by an experiment recently conducted in the laboratory of the Wisconsin Agricultural College. Kernels of Indian corn were planted by a number of students in galvanized iron seed pans nearly filled with garden loam, after which the pans were kept covered with close-fitting tin covers until the plantlets began to appear when the covers were removed.In all plantlets which appeared above the soil before the cover of the seed pan was removed, the first node is above the soil, as is clearly shown by the fact that this node bears the cotyledon, while in those that have since appeared, the first node is just at the surface or below it.

Il mio nome è Giuditta

