Abhandlungen des Preussischen Meteorologischen Instituts
Abstract of a Seminar at the Geophysical Research Directorate
African Regional Scientific Conference (Johannesburg, 1949)
African Regional Scientific Conference (Johannesburg, 1949), Commun. A
Annual Report of the East African Agriculture and Forestry Research Organization 1949
Annual Report of the Michigan Agricultural Experiment Station
Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution
Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution 1930
Atti Congr. Naz. Olivicoltura (Bari, 1938)
Bi-monthly Bulletin of the Ohio Agricultural Experiment Station
Boletin de la Estacion Experimental Agricola (Tucumán, Argentina)
Bombay Department of Agriculture Bulletin
Bulletin - Mississippi State College, Agricultural Experiment Station
Bulletin de l'Institut du Pin
Bulletin of Foreign Agricultural Intelligence
Bulletin of the Arizona Agricultural Experiment Station
Bulletin of the Arkansas Agricultural Experiment Station
Bulletin of the Florida Agricultural Experiment Station
Bulletin of the Gold Coast Agricultural Department
Bulletin of the Indiana Agricultural Experiment Station
Bulletin of the Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station
Bulletin of the Louisiana Agricultural Experiment Station
Bulletin of the Maryland Agricultural Experiment Station
Bulletin of the Massachusetts Agricultural Experiment Station
Bulletin of the Mauritius Department of Agriculture
Bulletin of the Minnesota Engineering Experiment Station
Bulletin of the Missouri Agricultural Experiment Station
Bulletin of the Montana Agricultural Experiment Station
Bulletin of the Nebraska Agricultural Experiment Station
Bulletin of the North Dakota Agricultural Experiment Station
Bulletin of the Ohio Agricultural Experiment Station
Bulletin of the Panhandle Agricultural Experiment Station
Bulletin of the Pennsylvania Agricultural Experiment Station
Bulletin of the Texas Agricultural Experiment Station
Bulletin of the U.S. Department of Agriculture
Bulletin of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Plant Industry
Bulletin of the Utah Agricultural Experiment Station
Bulletin of the Vermont Agricultural Experiment Station
Bulletin of the Weather Bureau
Bulletin of the Weather Bureau, U.S. Department of Commerce
Bulletin of the West Virginia Agricultural Experiment Station
Bulletin of the Wisconsin Agricultural Experiment Station
Bulletin – State Geological and Natural History Survey of Connecticut
Bureau of Soils Bulletin
California Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin
Circular of Information of the Oregon Agricultural Experiment Station
Circular of the Montana Agriculture Experiment Station
Circular of the New Jersey Department of Agriculture
Circular of the New York Agricultural Experiment Station
Circular of the Oregon Agricultural Experiment Station
Circular of the U.S. Department of Agriculture
Colorado Agriculture Experiment Station Bulletin
Compt. rend. 67th Congr. Soc. savantes
Comptes-rendus du Congrès des Sociétés savantes de Paris et des Départements, tenu à Toulouse en 1933
Cornell University Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin
Cornell University Agricultural Experiment Station Memoirs
Extension Circular of the Louisiana Agricultural Experiment Station, Part 2
Flugblatt der Bundesanstalt für Pflanzenschutz
Forest Service Bulletin
Georgia State College of Agriculture Bulletin
Illinois Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin
Inst. Estudios Super. Sec. Invests. Meteorol.
Interagra Inst. Intern Collaboration Agr. Forestry (Prague)
Irkutsk
Jahresbericht des Berliner Zweigvererins der Deutschen Meteorologischen Gesellschaft
Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station
Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station Circular
Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station, Agricultural Economic Report
Memoirs of the Cornell Agricultural Experiment Station
Memoirs of the Cornell University Agricultural Experiment Station
Memoirs of the New York Botanical Garden
Meteorological Bureau Bulletin
Ministerio de Agricultura, Sección Publ., Prensa y Propaganda (Madrid, Spain)
Ministerio de Fomento, Dirección de Agricultura y Ganadería (Peru) Informe
Ministry of Agriculture, Egypt: Technical and Scientific Service: Bulletin
Miscellaneous fascicle
Miscellaneous publications of the U.S. Department of Agriculture
Missouri Agricultural Experiment Station Research Bulletin
Moravsky zemsky vyskumny ústav zemedelsky v. Brne. Sekce pro zemedelskou meteorol. a pudoznalstvi
Mémoires de l'Institut Royal Colonial Belgique
National Research Council Canada
New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin
New York State Agricultural Experiment Station (Geneva) Bulletin
Oklahoma Station Bulletin 214
Oregon Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin
Oxford Forestry Memoirs
Papers in Physical Oceanography and Meteorology
Porto Rico Agricultural Experiment Station Report 1924
Prace Biura Meljoracji Polesia [Works of the Polesia Land Reclamation Office]
Prace Państwowy Inst. Hydrol. i Meteorol.
Proceedings of the 33rd Indian Science Congress
Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Ohio State Horticultural Society
Proceedings of the All-Russian Congress on Botany
Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the N.Y. State Fruit Growers' Association
Proceedings of the International congress of plant sciences, 1st Congress, Ithaca, New York, August 16-23, 1926
Proceedings of the Purdue Conference Mech. Appl., Symposium on Frost Action
Proceedings of the Western Interstate Snow Survey Conference
Proces-verbaux
Publicación Miscelánea
Publications de l'Institut National pour l'Étude Agronomique du Congo Belge
Report presented to H.E. the Ministry of Agriculture of the United States of Brazil
Reports of the 2nd Conference on Cotton Growing Problems
Reports of the Alabama Agricultural Experiment Station
Reports of the Hawaii Agricultural Experiment Station 1946–1948
Reports of the Quebec Society for the Protection of Plants 1932–34
Research Bulletin of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
Research Bulletin of the Iowa Agricultural Experiment Station
Research Bulletin of the Minnesota Agricultural Experiment Station
Research Bulletin of the Nebraska Agricultural Experiment Station
Science bulletin – Department of Agriculture and Forestry, Union of South Africa
Special Bulletin of the Michigan Agricultural Experiment Station
Special Bulletin of the Weather Bureau
Special Circular of the Alabama Agricultural Experiment Station
Studies in applied climatology
Tacubaya. Serv. Met. Sec. Clim. Foll.
Technical Bulletin
Technical Bulletin of the Agricultural Experiment Station Kansas, Kansas State College of Agriculture and Applied Science
Technical Bulletin of the Department of Agriculture
Technical Bulletin of the Michigan Agricultural Experiment Station
Technical Bulletin of the Minnesota Agricultural Experiment Station
Technical Bulletin of the New Hampshire Agricultural Experiment Station
Technical Bulletin of the U.S. Department of Agriculture
Technical Bulletin of the Virginia Agricultural Experiment Station
Technical Paper
Technical Publication of the New York State College of Forestry
Technical Report W/T
Technical bulletin of the New York State Agricultural Experiment Station
Texas Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin
The Clayton Weather Service
U.S. 74th Congress, 2nd Session Senate Document 199
U.S. Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Soils, Bulletin
U.S. Forest Service, Northeastern Forest Experiment Station Technical Note
U.S. Interdepartmental Comm. on Utilization Weather Bur. Serv. Agr.
U.S. Weather Service Publications
United States Department of Agriculture Technical Bulletin
University of Pretoria, Serios no. 1
Vermont Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin
Weather Bureau Publications
Wisconsin Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin
Wisconsin Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin (revised)
Wisconsin Agricultural Experiment Station Research Bulletin
Yale University – School of Forestry – Bulletin
Yale University – Schoolf of Forestry – Bulletin
Zjazd Naukowy Rolniczo-Leśny, 25–28. maja 1936 r. -Sekcja Leśna, 17-26, 1937
