INTRODUCTION One of the problems that presents itself to the Kansas wheat farmer nearly every fall is whether conditions are such as to warrant seeding a large or a small acreage. Seasons in which the yields are not sufficient to return a profit, regardless of price or seed-bed preparation, are not uncommon. Obviously a reliable method of predicting yields would be of inestimable value, since acreage could be materially reduced in those years when prospects are poor and increased in others. As a matter of fact, farmers do habitually determine the acreage to be planted somewhat according to the prospects for a profitable yield based on the best available information. Thus in very dry falls or with ground in poor condition for other reasons a small acreage is likely to be seeded, whereas the opposite is true when moisture is plentiful and conditions are favorable for germination. However, the information on which such changes in acreage are made is very meager, indefinite, and often erroneous. For example, a good rain about seeding time may produce ideal topsoil conditions and thus encourage a large acreage without materially increasing the chances for a profitable yield if the subsoil is dry. The studies on which this paper is based were undertaken to supply more accurate and dependable information regarding the relation between certain factors and the yield of the crop. It is a matter of common knowledge that moisture exerts a dominating influence on yields in western Kansas, and hence a study of factors influencing yields can not ignore this relationship. Moreover it would appear that moisture in the soil at seeding time especially merits attention (1) because of its possible relation to yield, and (2) because it can be determined accurately and without great expense. That there is a relation between the moisture in the soil at seeding time and the yield of the following crop has been shown by Call and Hallsted [3]. The utilization of soil moisture by spring wheat and the possible value of soil moisture as a factor in forecasting yields have been discussed by Cole and Mathews [4]. The storage of water in soil and its utilization by spring wheat have been studied by Mathews [5], and recently Alsberg and Griffing [6] have emphasized the need of further work of this nature. The data reported here were secured as a part of the investigations conducted by the Office of Dry Land Agriculture, United States Department of Agriculture, and the Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station cooperating at the Fort Hays branch station. Hays, Kans. The Fort Hays branch station is located at Hays, Ellis County, in west-central Kansas not far from the center of the Kansas hard red winter-wheat belt. The average precipitation recorded by the United States Weather Bureau for a 61-year period, 1868 to 1928, inclusive, is 22.8 inches. The average recorded by a rain gage on the project for the period during which these data were collected, namely, 1909 to 1928, inclusive, is 21.4 inches. Of this amount an average of 16.7 inches, or 78 per cent, fell during the growing season, April 1 to September 30, inclusive. The average evaporation from a free water surface during the growing season for the years 1909 to 1928, inclusive, is 46.7 inches. The soil is a dark grayish-brown silty clay loam. The surface soil is 12 to 15 inches deep. It is a heavy soil as shown by its water relations, but its strong flocculation and granulation make the surface open and friable except when packed after heavy rains. It blows easily when the surface is smoothed by packing rains or by cultivation and after winter weathering. The moisture-carrying capacity to a depth of 6 feet is about 22.6 per cent of the dry weight of the soil. The moisture-carrying capacity of the surface soil is slightly higher than that of the subsoil. The wilting coefficient is about 16.5 per cent. The minimum point of exhaustion for wheat as shown by observations is about 12.4 per cent. The investigations at the Fort Hays branch station were begun in 1906 and had as their objective the study of tillage methods, rotations, and methods of conserving moisture for various crops grown in western Kansas. Soil-moisture studies in relation to wheat production have from the first taken a prominent part in these investigations, and they have been increased from time to time. The tillage and rotation project as a whole includes 461 tenth-acre plots, of which 383 relate to wheat production either directly or indirectly. More than 150 of the latter have been sampled for moisture at one time or another; about 50 individual plots comprising 483 plot years are included in the study presented here. EXPERIMENTAL PROCEDURE Soil samples for moisture determinations were taken at four locations on each plot, a tube cutting a core 20 mm. in diameter being used. The cores were extracted in 1-foot sections and placed in airtight metal containers. They were weighed in grams and milligrams and dried in an oven at a temperature ranging between 100° and 110° C. The moisture was calculated separately on each foot as a percentage of the dry weight of the soil. Soil-moisture determinations have been made at various times during the period of seed-bed preparation and during the development of the crop, at all depths to and including 6 feet. Occasional determinations have been made to a depth of 10 feet. Casual studies of the data revealed a closer relation between yield and moisture in the soil at seeding time than between yield and moisture at any other time of the year. For this reason and because the purpose here is to derive information of use at or preceding the sowing of the crop, attention in this paper is confined to the moisture in the soil at or near seeding time, September 15 to October 1. The method of study adopted was to make scatter diagrams showing the relation between moisture in the soil and yield and to calculate the coefficient of correlation between these two variables. For these purposes the percentage of moisture in the soil in the first, second, and third foot sections taken together and also in the fourth, fifth, and sixth foot sections taken together were correlated with yield. In some cases the correlation between yield and the moisture content of the full depth of 6 feet was calculated, but in all cases the figures so obtained were less useful for the present purpose than the others, and further consideration of these data is reserved for future study. _figure_ FIGURE 1. - Relation between percentage of moisture in the surface 3 feet of soil at seeding time and the yield of winter wheat following winter wheat. The moisture determinations are reported to tenths of a per cent and the yields to tenths of a bushel. In calculating the correlation coefficients the decimals in both cases were disregarded, five- tenths and above being carried to the next whole number and decimals less than five-tenths being dropped. Correlations were first calculated for single plots or for small groups of plots having identical or nearly identical treatment, and these were then grouped together where further study indicated that such grouping was justified. This might have been carried even further by combining some of these larger groups, but the data are not sufficient to indicate clearly in just what cases this might be done, and hence this possibility is reserved for future study. EXPERIMENTAL DATA Table 1 shows the previous crop and the treatment, the period of years covered, number of plot years, mean yield, mean moisture content of the first and the second 3-foot layers of soil, standard deviations of moisture and of yields, and the correlation between the moisture and the yield in each of the two soil layers. Table 2 gives the same information for larger groups, the basic data being the same in every case except for wheat following corn, in which case Table 2 contains some data that are not given in Table 1. Figures 1 to 6 are scatter diagrams showing the relations between the percentage of moisture in the surface 3 feet of soil at seeding time and the yields of wheat grown in the different cropping systems. Regression lines are shown in all cases except Figures 3 and 4, in which cases regression probably is not linear. _table_ TABLE 1. - Moisture content at seeding time, yield of wheat, standard deviations, and coefficients of correlation between soil-moisture content and yield of wheat grown in several cropping systems at the Fort Hays branch station. Hays, Kans. _diagram_ FIGURE 2. - Relation between percentage of moisture in the surface 3 feet of soil at seeding time and the yield of winter wheat following fallow. _graph_ FIGURE 3.— Relation between percentage of moisture in the surface 3 feet of soil at seeding time and the yield of winter wheat following corn. _diagram_ FIGURE 4.— Relation between percentage of moisture in the surface 3 feet of soil at seeding time and the yield of winter wheat following kafir. _diagram_ FIGURE 5. — Relation between percentage of moisture in the surface 3 feet of soil at seeding time and the yield of winter wheat following green manure. For all groups in Table 2, the correlations between moisture content of the first or surface 3 feet of soil and yield of wheat are significant in relation to the probable errors, showing an unmistakable relation between the two. There is likewise a significant correlation between yield and moisture in the second 3 feet for wheat after wheat, wheat after corn, and for wheat after fallow. In other cases the correlation is practically zero. In every instance but one the correlation with the moisture in the first 3 feet of soil is significantly higher than with the moisture in the second 3 feet. In this one exception, which was after fallow, the correlation for each section is relatively low. _diagram_ FIGURE 6. — Relation between percentage of moisture in the surface 3 feet of soil at seeding time and the yield of winter wheat following barley. TABLE 2. — The relation between moisture content in the soil at seeding time and yield of wheat grown in various cropping systems at the Fort Hays branch station. _table_ A complete and critical study of the relation of soil moisture to yield should take into consideration the supply of moisture in the lower depths. Thus, it is conceivable that a correlation of 0.402 as was secured for the yield and moisture in the second 3-foot layer on wheat after wheat may be useful when considered in connection with the correlation in the upper 3 feet. The same applies to wheat on fallow and to wheat on corn ground. Some consideration has been given to these possibilities, but a preliminary study by means of multiple and partial correlations indicated that so far as the purpose of the present paper is concerned, no great improvements would be secured by the use of these data. The present report, therefore, is based on the first 3 feet of soil and the matter of the lower depths is reserved for future study. For the practical purpose of predicting yields, it is fortunate that the correlation between yield and moisture in the first 3 feet is relatively high, since the determinations for only 3 feet are much easier and more convenient to make. The highest correlations were secured where wheat was grown after wheat or barley, the coefficients being 0.807 ± 0.021 and 0.850 ± 0.045, respectively. The difference between them is less than the probable error of difference. Because of this fact and because of the small numbers involved in the latter case, no distinction between the two is made at this time. The correlations for wheat after corn and after kafir are 0.615 ± 0.057 and 0.437±0.116, respectively. These lower values are in line with expectations in indicating that factors other than total moisture in the upper 3 feet of soil play an important part in determining the yield. A dry surface soil at seeding time may result in poor germination and a thin stand. A thin stand is usually accompanied by weed growth in the spring and late maturity, which subjects the crop to a longer period of danger of damage from hot winds, rust, and insects. Corn and kafir stubble lands are also more subject to soil blowing, which sometimes reduces yields. The well-known deleterious effect of sorghums on succeeding crops may also be a factor in reducing the yield of wheat after kafir. It should be noted, however, as previously mentioned and as illustrated in Figures 3 and 4, regression is probably not strictly linear in these cases, and hence the relation between moisture and yield may be closer than the calculated values of r suggest. In fact, it appears more than likely that the relation between soil moisture and yield when the moisture content of the soil is less than about 20 per cent is different than when it is 20 per cent or more. However, the available data are hardly sufficient for a critical discussion of these relationships. The correlations where wheat is grown after green manure (0.524 ± 0.074) and after summer fallow (0.458 ± 0.034) are nearly the same, the difference being less than the probable error of difference. Wheat grown on land prepared by either of these methods sometimes suffers from the same causes, and the explanation for the relatively low correlation is probably the same for each. During the period here considered, there have been years when the rainfall was not enough or was too poorly distributed to finish properly the heavy growth produced on fallowed or green-manured plots. When such conditions prevail until after the stored moisture becomes exhausted, what promised to be a heavy yield may suddenly become an almost complete failure. Such conditions obtained in 1911, 1913, 1917, and 1927. On the other hand, in seasons of high rainfall, such wheat makes a heavy growth and is more subject to injury from lodging. Under these conditions it often yields even less than cropped land. This was the case in 1915 and 1919. A correlation of 0.8 or more, as was secured for wheat after wheat and wheat after barley, should be of value in predicting yields on the basis of moisture in the soil at seeding time. Consideration of the graphs (figs. 1 to 6) also will permit certain useful predictions regarding yield even when the correlation is considerably less than 0.8. For purposes of prediction the regression equation is useful, and consequently it has been calculated for each set of data and is shown in the figures. In two cases (to be noted later) the regression is not strictly linear. The same is perhaps true in other cases, although, in general, the relation is so nearly linear as to introduce no material error in considering it so. The numbers involved in general are too small to justify calculation of the correlation ratio. Figure 1 shows a total of 92 comparisons of the relation between the water content at seeding time of land that has borne a crop of wheat and the yield of the following crop of wheat. In 35 of these the water content of the surface 3 feet averaged 20 per cent or more, which by the regression formula would indicate a probable yield of 20 bushels or more per acre. The yield was less than the indicated minimum in only 7 of the 35 cases. In only 1 of these 7 cases could the yield be characterized as very poor. In 49 of the 92 comparisons the soil at seeding time contained 18.5 per cent of water or more, which would indicate a yield of 15 bushels or more. In only 9 of these 49 cases was the yield less than 15 bushels. In only 6 cases was the yield less than 10 bushels per acre. _table_ TABLE 3.— Calculated and actual wheat yields when three different methods were used in preparing wheat stubble land for planting. On the other hand, there are 26 cases where the moisture in the soil was 16.7 per cent or less, indicating a yield not exceeding 10 bushels. In only 6 cases was a yield of as much as 10 bushels obtained, and in only 1 of the 6 was the yield as much as 20 bushels per acre. In 18 of the 26 cases the yield was less than 5 bushels per acre. It may be of interest to pursue this comparison somewhat further, and for this purpose Table 3 has been prepared. This table gives the moisture at seeding time in soils prepared by three different methods, the yield that would have been predicted by the regression equation, and the actual yield. The correlation for moisture and yield on fallow was found to be only 0.458, hence any predictions of yield are certain to be less accurate than for wheat after wheat. Nevertheless, it appears that the relation is sufficiently close to be of value. Figure 2 shows that there were 226 cases out of a total of 253 in which there was 20 per cent of moisture in the soil at seeding time. According to the regression equation, a yield of 15 bushels or more should have been obtained. Actually this quantity (or more) was obtained in 165 cases, or in all but 60. Of these 60 cases, only 3 may be considered as complete failures (2 to 3 bushels per acre). Less than 15 bushels per acre would have been predicted in 27 cases. In only 1 of these cases was a yield of 15 bushels or more produced. The moisture content of the soil at seeding time, the yields that would have been predicted from the regression equation, and the actual yields for three different plots of wheat grown on fallow are given in Table 4. _table_ TABLE 4.— Calculated and actual yields of wheat on fallow. Although the correlations are not high, 0.615 and 0.437, 20 per cent moisture in the upper 3 feet of soil on corn or kafir land has nearly always produced a crop, only 2 failures out of a total of 14 cases having been recorded. However, it is more difficult to store as much as 20 per cent of moisture in the soil after these crops than alter small-grain crops because corn and kafir mature several weeks later than the small grains and therefore afford a much shorter time in which to accumulate moisture before seeding time for wheat. Thus, of the 55 cases m which wheat has been grown after corn, there were only 14, or slightly more than 25 per cent, in which the moisture content of the upper 3 feet of soil was 20 per cent or more. Of the 22 cases of wheat after kafir (fig. 4), only 2 had 20 per cent or more. With less than 20 per cent in the upper 3 feet of soil, the average yields are low and uncertain. Thus, for this group the average yield after corn is 10.9 bushels and on kafir ground 12 bushels. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS With reference to the practical side of the problem, it has already been pointed out that a moisture content of 20 per cent or more in the upper 3 feet of soil at seeding time at Hays has practically precluded a crop failure as a result of drought, although failure may result from hail, flood, or other conditions. This fact should be of considerable practical value, not only in discouraging a large acreage when the supply of moisture is materially less than 20 per cent, but also by way of emphasizing the need for those practices which will conserve the most moisture in the soil. In the period covered by these studies it has been possible by means of fallow to conserve as much as 20 per cent of moisture in the upper 3 feet of soil in nearly 90 per cent of the cases, for wheat after small grains in about 40 per cent of the cases, for wheat after corn in about 25 per cent of the cases, and for wheat after kafir in only about 10 per cent of the cases. With a soil-moisture content of much less than 20 per cent in the surface 3 feet at seeding time the chances of securing a large crop are much less and the chances for harvesting a small crop or having a failure are measurably increased. With about 15 per cent moisture in the soil, the crop is practically dependent on rainfall subsequent to seeding. While within certain limits it appears that the data presented here may be of considerable value for forecasting yields, they are principally useful in predicting failures, or more accurately, as a means of determining when chances for a crop are reasonably good and when they are largely dependent on factors other than stored moisture. The smaller the quantity of stored moisture at seeding time, the more dependent is the crop on the weather during the growing season and the greater are the chances of a failure. [2] The authors desire to acknowledge the assistance of Prof. S. C. Salmon, of the Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station, especially in the statistical interpretation of the data. [3] CALL, L. E., and HALLSTED, A. L. THE RELATION OF MOISTURE TO YIELD OF WINTER WHEAT IN WESTERN KANSAS. Kans. Agr. Expt. Sta. Bul. 206, 34 p., illus. 1915. [4] COLE, J.S., and MATHEWS, O.R. USE OF WATER BY SPRING WHEAT ON THE GREAT PLAINS. T. J. S. Dept. Agr., Dept. Bul. 1004, 33 p., illus. 1923. (With an introduction by E. C. Chilcott.) [5] MATHEWS, 0. R. STORAGE OF WATER IN SOIL AND ITS UTILIZATION BY SPRING WHEAT. U. S. Dept. Agr. Dept. Bul. 1139, 28p., illus. 1923. (With introduction by E. C. Chilcott.) [6] ALSBERG, C. L., and GRIFFING, E. P. FORECASTING WHEAT YIELDS FROM THE WEATHER. Food Research Inst., Wheat Studies v. 5, no. 1, 44 p. 1928
