There is probably no higher authority on the relations of plants to light than Professor Julius Wiesner of the University of Vienna. He has, during many years, published important papers on this general subject, and in 1907 he set forth the principal results of his researches in his Lichtgenuss der Pflanzen, W. Englemann, Leipzig. As there are few important topics in plant physiology of which most of us know as little as we do about the amount of light needed by plants for successful life and growth, it may be worth while to sum up for the readers of The Plant World a few of Wiesner's statements and to comment on some of them. The author defines the term Lichtgenuss as meaning substantially the light-requirement of any given species of plant. The relative light-requirement signifies the fraction of the total amount of light in any particular region which will enable the plant in question to thrive there. For example, if a plant will flourish in the evergreen woods of the Adirondack region with one-third of the total light which falls on unshaded areas there, its light requirement is 1-3. It is noteworthy that as a rule the light-requirement increases in the higher latitudes. Acer platanoides, which in Vienna, lat. 48.12 deg. N., has a light-requirement ranging from 1 to 1-55, in Tromso, Norway, lat. 69.50 deg. N., has a requirement of from 1 to 1-5. Evidently, as the author remarks, the introduction of light-measurements, even if at first they may be somewhat crude initiates a decided advance over the plan of describing the habitat of a species as sunny, partially sunny, shaded, or deeply shaded. Every such extension of our knowledge of plants makes one long for an ecological flora of his own locality. Impracticable for extensive regions, such a flora could be worked out for a limited area in such a way as to include most of the things best worth knowing about the commoner seed plants treated. It might cover their light, heat, and moisture requirements, their relation to soil composition, to animal and plant parasites, and to pollinating insects. Much attention should be paid to the influence of these factors of the environment in causing variations. Who now knows all of these details that might be learned about any single species? One of the chief difficulties in the way of getting an accurate knowledge of the light-relations of plants is that it is very difficult to determine with reasonable accuracy the amount and kind of light which they daily and yearly receive. Notwithstanding the existence of good photometers for the physicist and so many kinds of sensitive paper which will give some kind of measurement of relative light intensity, there is no instrument which measures illuminations as promptly and accurately as the thermometer measures relative temperatures. As is well known the light from different portions of the spectrum affects the plant very differently. Apparently, transpiration is most favored by blue light, heliotropic movement by light from the portion of the spectrum between violet and ultra violet, photosynthesis by light from the red to the yellow portion. Blue and ultra violet light are necessary to the healthy growth of green plants, serving to prevent excessive growth and etiolation. It is evident then, that sensitized paper which is acted on by only a few kinds of rays is not a satisfactory measure of the value of any given illumination for plants. If, however, we know that the light which they receive in any particular case is merely weakened sunlight, with the several regions of the spectrum all proportionally represented, we may fairly make use of ordinary photographic paper for our measurements. It will then be necessary to standardize the paper in some way in order to know what fractional part of the full sunlight the area, plant, or part of a plant under consideration is at the time of observation receiving. These questions of photometric methods and of nature and intensity of daylight are fully discussed in the two sections of Wiesner's work.* One of our author's important contributions to the general subject of light-relations of plants, discussed in detail in earlier works and briefly outlined in his Lichtgenuss, is the classification of leaves with reference to their utilization of light. Those which show no fixed relation to the incidence of light, such as pine needles, are classed as aphotometric. Those which show some relation, either fixed or adjustable, are photometric. Of the latter class there are two divisions, euphotometric leaves, and panphotometric leaves. Good examples of the euphotometric class are those in the interior of the crown of most deciduous trees. These exercise the greatest economy of light and are so placed as to receive as much diffused light as possible. If they are borne by plants which grow in the shade of forest trees (not on the margins of woods) they extend almost horizontally to get the maximum amount of the light which filters through the leaves above them. Panphotometric leaves show the most complex adaptations of any, since they can ward off some direct sunlight by exposing their edges to it, but offer a much greater surface for the absorption of diffused light. Such leaves as those of Robinia Pseudo-Acacia and Phaseolus, which meet the varying illumination of different periods of the day with rather prompt changes of position are in the highest degree panphotometric. For botanists in general the most suggestive part of Wiesner's book and the one to which reference will oftenest be made, is the fourth section, which deals with the light-requirement of the plants of some of the principal physiographical regions, as steppes, deserts, tundra and tropical forests. It also takes up the light-relations of a few of the great groups of plants and gives in a good deal of detail the author's values for the light-requirement of many species, mostly of seed plants. The lowest light-requirement of any kind of plant reported on (which needs light at all) is that of some lichens. These grow, but do not fruit, in lower Austria, with a light-require of 1-156. Most lichens of that general region find their optimum in an illumination of 1-10 to 1-20. Most grasses are sun-loving plants and many species have a light requirement closely approaching unity. Some shade-tolerating species, however, were found in Austria to vegetate, but not to fruit, in an illumination of 1-60 to 1-70 and tropical species in Java grew in an illumination of 1-100. Many plants which form the herbaceous carpet of the forest floor under deciduous trees have a light-requirement which varies greatly at different seasons. Such species push forward their flowering and fruiting either before the trees are in leaf, or, at any rate, while the leaves are still very small. The foliage often grows and does photometric work the summer through, under a greatly lessened illumination. Hepatica triloba is given by Wiesner as a typical example of this change of requirement, generally blooming, near Vienna, in an illumination of 1-2 to 1-3 but continuing its later growth normally with 1-15. It is a fact familiar to botanical observers in regions where the European ivy, Hedera Helix, grows freely as a wild plant that it blossoms and fruits only in well lighted places and there takes on a very different habit from that which it manifests in the shade. Near Vienna and about Trieste it blooms with a light-requirement of 1 to 1-4.5, but grows well with as little illumination as 1-48. It should be noted that plants growing under trees almost never get the total illumination of the region throughout the whole day, even when the trees are bare. The value of the illumination in leafless beech forests in April was found to be 1-1.5 to 1-2, and in the shadows of the tree trunks as low as 1-6 of the total outside of the forest cover. As might be expected, epiphytes, whether vascular cryptogams or seed plants, often have a very low light-requirement. The well-known epiphytic fern, Asplenium Nidus, grows at Buitenzorg, Java, in illuminations as low as 1-38. An orchidaceous epiphyte, Taeniophyllum, common in the same locality, grows in illuminations as low as 1-32 and blossoms in those of 1-5 to 1-8. Practical foresters have long known that there is much difference in the power of various kinds of timber trees to endure shade. Beech, maple, and red spruce, among American trees, are tolerant of shade, while most oaks, hickories, chestnut, and larch are intolerant. Wiesner gives many valuable data in regard to the relative light-requirement of temperate European and American and of arctic and tropical trees. A remarkable instance of gradual adaptation of a leaf during its development to increasing light intensity is displayed by Amherstia nobilis, a beautiful Caesalpiniaceous tree which flourishes in the garden at Buitenzorg. The young leaves are flaccid and almost colorless, evidently containing little chlorophyll. They hang vertically downward and are greatly sheltered by the older leaves. Little by little they become firmer and assume a green color, until at length they can withstand the full glare of the tropical sun. Apparently the fully developed ones in some instances receive about five hundred times as much light as the youngest and most protected ones. Summing up a few of the good and bad points of Professor Wiesner's book, it may be said to contain more detailed and authoritative information upon the light relations of plants than any other single work. It is extremely interesting and suggestive of many lines of investigation for the plant physiologists of all countries. On the other hand it does not seem to be well arranged for reference, the topics discussed are not treated with regard to their relative scientific importance, and the index is most inadequate. A brief glossary would have aided the reader who is not familiar with the author's other writings on this general topic, but none is given. It would seem to many botanists that Wiesner, in trying to fix the light minimum for the species studied, has too readily assumed that when a plant does not grow well or grow at all on the forest floor or in the shade of other shrubs or herbs it fails to flourish wholly because of the shade. Lack of water or of nutritive salts or even deleterious substances given off by the roots of the trees may at times figure as factors in the problem. * The reader who is desirous of looking up the literature of this subject will find sufficient references for the purpose in Pfeffer's Physiology of Plants, Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1900-1906, and in Burgerstein's Die Transpiration der Pflanzen, Jena, 1904.
