It has long been noticed by our farmers that the temperature of irrigation water has a considerable influence upon the growth of rice plant, and in consequence remarkably affects the yield; but the extent of this influence has not yet been concretely known. In recent years some remarkable changes in the temperature of irrigation water in our rice districts have taken place due, for example, to changes of irrigation system, or to the use of the irrigation water as motor power. So we feel it useful to consider the relation of the temperature of irrigation water to rice cultivation quantitatively and qualitatively. For the purpose of obtaining some fundamental data of this relation, we started experiments in 1923, and repeated them five times during the five years hence. But the experiments in 1923 ended without results because of the destruction of the equipments by the great earthquake of September. The most important part of the experimental equipment of five wooden water tanks lined with zinked iron plate, each of which was put on a stand and laid side by side on an open ground. Each tank was constantly irrigated with city-water of Shibuya. The water was cooled below 15 °C. by an ammonia refrigerator, and this water was heated by a gas flame at the bottom of the tank to a certain an automatic regulator. Thus the water temperature of the five tanks were kept as follows: _table_ Six Wagner's pots (25 cm. in diameter, 35 cm. in depth) planted with rice seedlings were submerged in each tank, so as their upper brims were about two centimeters below the surface of the tank water. Thus the rice plants of the six pots in each tank were constantly irrigated all at once with water of a fixed temperature; and naturally the temperature of the soil in the pots was the same as that of the water. Each pot was filled with a definite amount of soil and was supplied with fixed quantities of fertilizers which contained sufficient nutrients for the growth of the rice plants. The variety of rice used for the experiment was " Sekitori." The seedlings were brought up in a nursery methods and were transplanted into the pots at the end of June, five seedlings being placed around a circle of ten centimeter diameter at the center of the pot. Immediately after the planting of seedlings, the pots were placed in the tank and the irrigation was started. The irrigation was continued throughout the period of vegetative growth of the plants, that is, till the latter part of September, and then stopped; and towards the end of October all plants were harvested, being cut just above the soil. Beside the five tanks above mentioned another tank was used, into which a set of six Wagner's pots were placed with the same preparation as above described. Water was sufficiently supplied to the tank and consequently also to the pots, but its temperature was left in natural conditions. During the period of irrigation, the temperature of the tank water and that of the soil in the pot were observed daily at 10 A.M. The observed temperature ranged between 24° and 25 °C., very rarely exceeding 30 °C. The principal results of this experiment are summarized in the following table. The data in this table are generally the average of the the results obtained during the four years except a few which are that of three years. These few are those obtained from the experimental plats added two years after the others. _table_ Deducing from the above data it will be seen that the optimum temperature of the irrigation water for the cultivation of the rice (variety "Sekitori") in the climatic conditions of Tokyo is round about 32 °C. Moreover, it is clearly seen from the data that as the temperature departs above or below from the optimum, the yield of the grain as well as the total yield of the rice plant decreases remarkably. The relation of the temperature of irrigation water to industrial rice cultivation may be indefinitely variable according to climate and other natural conditions, amounts of irrigated water, methods of irrigation etc., but the writer hopes that the results of the present investigation may serve not only for practical agriculture but also for more extended and more advanced studies of this subject. The present investigation was made in the Faculty of Agriculture, Tokyo Imperial University, and a part of the expense was defrayed by a grant from the Imperial Academy.
