Since the publication, in 1902, of Slingerland's [1] report of experiments with trap lanterns for capturing injurious insects, entomologists generally have agreed with his conclusion that the codling moth, Carpocapsa pomonella L. is not attracted to lights. With the exception of this test, however, little has been done upon this particular phase of codling-moth control. Nevertheless, light traps of various kinds have been offered to the public from time to time, and the claim has been made for them by the manufacturers that they were effective in attracting and capturing the codling moth as well as other insects. It has been customary for entomologists to discountenance these claims without investigation, assuming that the conclusions reached in 1902 could be accepted as final. A recent revival of interest among entomologists and the laity in the various supplementary measures for codling-moth control has led the writer to make tests of a number of these, including the use of lights. TESTS WITH LIGHTS AND BAIT IN ATTRACTING CODLING MOTHS IN A FRUIT STORAGE ROOM. On June 10, 1926, when the writer entered a dark, tightly-closed fruit storage room in which several thousand apple lug boxes were stored and switched on the lights, he noticed many codling moths fluttering about them. This suggested to him the idea that possibly, under these conditions, the moths might be attracted to lights. It was learned that the boxes had been used the previous season and were to be stored here until midsummer, when they would be used again, after the moths had emerged and died. The temperature of this room was much below that outside, as was shown by a thermograph placed in it later on. The low temperature had retarded moth emergence, but just how much could not be determined, since this was the first observation in the storeroom. Moth emergence began in the orchard about April 16-20, and was practically over by this date (June 10), but was not completed in this storeroom until July 4. On June 10 six 1-quart fruit jars containing fresh apple-ferment bait [2] were placed upon the tops of stacks of boxes in the storeroom, at varying distances (from 5 to 50 feet) from a single 25-watt carbon electric light. In addition, a 6-gallon can containing about 3 gallons of the same bait was placed about 10 feet from the light. Aside from this light the storeroom was in continual darkness. Three days later the jar 5 feet from the light had 4 females and 1 male moth and the large can had the same, whereas all other jars at greater distances from the light had caught none. This test indicated that in the storeroom the light had greater attraction to the moths than the bait. (Table 1.) During the next 3-day period the only change made in the test was to place the large can directly underneath the light and about 1 foot below it. Some time during the period the light burned out, so it was not known how long the moths were subjected to it. The jar 5 feet from the light had attracted 3 females and 1 male, the one 10 feet distant had attracted a single female, and all the other jars were without moths; but the large can under the light had attracted 733 moths, of which 58 per cent. were females. This great number of moths attracted to a single small light during an unknown part of a 3-day period was, to the writer, rather astonishing, inasmuch as the moths were not supposed to be attracted to light at all. At the next examination, 23 hours later, the jar 5 feet from the light had 3 females and 1 male and all others had none, but the can under the light had attracted 1,100 moths, of which 60 per cent. were females. During the next 24 hours the following test was made: In addition to the jars and the large can under the light, a large can containing water only was placed under another light about 40 feet distant from the first. In this test the bait can caught 217 moths, of which 61 per cent. were females, and the water can caught 193, of which nearly 65 per cent. were females. This indicated that it was the light and not the bait that attracted the moths, and that they fell into the water and the bait in about equal numbers more or less accidentally, from exhaustion or otherwise, while they were about the lights. After this test the use of the water can and the light with it was discontinued. The two large cans had together attracted 410 moths on the night of June 17, whereas only one of them had attracted 1,100 moths the night before, which indicated that the peak of moth emergence, or at least of moth attraction, had been reached. Thereafter daily captures became less and less until July 4, when the last moths were captured. In these tests a total of 4,006 moths were captured, of which 59.16 per cent. were females. Granted that both sexes are about equally attracted to light, this percentage would give about the normal proportion of the sexes, because none of either had had an opportunity to escape. This proportion of the sexes also agrees with the proportion captured in trap baits in orchards. Of 18,448 moths captured in bait traps in the years 1923, 1925, and 1926, 57.34 per cent. were females. Of course the unusual and abnormal conditions under which these tests were conducted justified the drawing of no conclusion regarding the attractive value of such a light in an orchard, under normal conditions; tests were therefore undertaken to determine this point. It is well known that the codling moth flies readily to windows when it is confined within a room, and remains there endeavoring to escape until it dies. In so far as this test is concerned, it might be that this endeavor to escape is the only significance of the attraction to the light. TEST IN 1926 WITH AN ELECTRIC-LIGHT TRAP IN AN ORCHARD (TABLE2) On July 14, 1926, a device consisting of an electric light surrounded by a framework of electrically charged wires was hung in a tree about 10 feet from the ground, in an orchard known to be pretty well infested with codling moths. Underneath this electric trap a large tub was suspended to catch as they fell toward the ground any insects killed by the machine. The light used in the trap was of 60-watt intensity. This trap, operated during the period July 14-19, attracted and killed many insects of several kinds, including about three dozen Chrysopas, but only two codling moths, although plenty of moths must have been present, as indicated by the contents of bait traps placed elsewhere in the orchard. On July 19 the light was supplemented by 4 gallons of apple-ferment bait placed in the tub beneath the light. This attracted 27 moths during the three nights, indicating that the bait and light were more attractive than the light trap alone. During the next three nights the bait tub, operated without the light trap, captured 44 moths, indicating that the bait alone was more attractive than the light alone or the bait and light together. Further tests, during the next five nights, with the light trap and the tub with water resulted in the capture of 15 moths - far less than were captured in the bait for a 3-day period. These tests showed, however, that some moths may be attracted to lights even out in the orchard. TESTS IN 1927 WITH TWO TYPES OF ELECTRIC-LIGHTTRAPS (TABLE3) On August 2, 1927, two electric-light traps were installed in two small blocks of badly infested fruit trees. One trap was the electric device discussed previously, but in this case it was suspended on a wire midway between the tops of two trees, the tub for catching the killed insects being suspended between two poles just under the trap. The other trap consisted of a metallic pan about 2 feet in diameter, from which arose four uprights supporting a metallic roof from which an electric light was suspended. The trap was merely a receptacle for oil or other material used to catch the insects attracted to the light, and a support for a light. Both of these traps are patented insect destroyers. They were operated over a period of 35 days, red, blue, and clear lights of varying intensities from 10 watts to 200 watts being used, these at times being supplemented with molasses-ferment bait [3]. The two traps are not meant to be comparable, although each was situated in its own small block of about a dozen badly infested trees, and each was located the same distance from a larger and badly infested orchard. Although the results of this test indicate a number of interesting points, the main thing is that considerable numbers of codling moths were attracted to these lights out in the orchard under normal conditions of severe infestation, which is contrary to former experience along this line. A total of 802 codling moths were captured in these two traps, practically all by the lights alone, as the addition of baits late in the season did not increase the catch. _table_ Probably the number of moths captured does not vary uniformly in proportion to the intensity of the light, but there are instances which point in that direction, as in the case of the oil-and-light trap on August 5, when the capture jumped from 5 moths caught with a lO-watt light to 50 caught with a 60-watt light; and again on August 17, when 76 moths were caught with a 200-watt light and only 4 the night before with a 100-watt light. Red or blue lights of lO-watt capacity do not appear particularly different in attractive capacity from the clear lights of the same power. It is apparent that the catches are not entirely accidental, since no moths were caught on any night when the lights were off, as on August 8 and 25 in the case of the oil-and-light trap. When the temperature falls below a certain point codling moths apparently react to lights in the same manner as they do to baits. This is shown very significantly by the low captures on August 12, 13, and 14, when the mean temperature dropped from around 78 °F. to about 56 °F. (Table 3.) Captures in bait traps at this same time dropped from around 1,000 moths to 11 moths on the 13th. The capture by the two light traps averaged together 22.92 moths per day for the whole period they were in operation. During the period (August 3 to 25) when the moths were abundant and active, as shown by bait traps near by, the moths captured by the two traps averaged 32.68 per day. In conclusion it may be stated that, contrary to long-established belief, the codling moth can be readily attracted to lights under normal orchard conditions. These tests made do not prove, however, that such traps as were tried are of any considerable control value. _table_ _table_  [1] Slingerland, M. V. Trap Lanterns or "Moth Catchers." Cornell University Agr. Exp. Sta. Bul. 202. 1902.[2] Apple ferment is one of the baits used in attracting codling moths. It is prepared by grinding 1 pound of apples and then cooking them in 1 gallon of water. After this has cooled one-half pound of brown sugar and one-half ounce (1 cake) of fresh yeast are added to it. [3] Molasses ferment bait consists of 1 part of molasses to 10 or even 30 parts of water to which is added about one-half ounce (1 cake) of fresh yeast.
