In the examination of BLAAUW's theory of phototropism, the authors, who dealt experimentally with this question, arrived at opposite results. While BRAUNER (1922) and VAN DILLEWIJN (1925) see the results of their experiments as confirmation of the theory, LUNDEJARDH (1922) and PISEK (1926) take a negative view. Since a more detailed discussion of the literature is not possible in the context of this small communication, I must confine myself to reporting shortly on my own attempts to clarify the problem. So far, light growth and curvature reactions have been compared and it has been seen whether they correspond qualitatively and quantitatively. Since the application of this method has produced contradictory results, I have chosen a different path. There is a very simple way to deprive avena coleoptiles of their phototropism for some time without seriously damaging them: decapitation. Do decapitated seedlings now show a light growth reaction or not? If light had no influence on growth, this fact would be consistent with theory. If, however, a growth inhibition could be observed which is qualitatively and quantitatively similar to the inhibition of normal seedlings, it would result that a simple causal relationship between light growth and curvature reaction, as it is supposed to exist according to BLAAUW, cannot be assumed. Based on this thought, I have compared the growth of decapitated seedlings in the dark (under red light) with the growth of such seedlings under the influence of one-sided illumination. The duration of the experiment was always 2 hours. (In some cases the microscopic observation had to be stopped a little earlier, because disturbing mutations occurred). For the quantitative determination of a possible difference in the growth of dark and light plants a single measurement of the growth sizes of both groups after 2 hours was sufficient. In order to get further information about the beginning of the growth inhibition, I followed the growth of a series of seedling pairs of 5 to 5 minutes with the horizontal microscope. In this series the growth was half before the actual observation. The growth was controlled for one hour (also from 5 to 5 minutes). Sometimes measurements were made after a longer break (10-15 minutes). Then the increment values were calculated from the arithmetic mean. The numbers in question are shown in brackets in the table. In cases where it was necessary to reset the seedling cut surface, the time lost for observation is indicated at the appropriate point in the table. The measurement of the total growth during the test period was carried out in such a way that a thin glass needle was placed next to the seedling immediately after decapitation. Under the control of the horizontal microscope, the needle tip was placed at exactly the same height as the seedling cut surface. The increase was then measured microscopically. The seedlings were always illuminated on one side by a 50 candle Osram bulb (the exact light intensity was not determined). The distance from the light source was about 25 cm in the case of the measurement of the total growth, in the other case 50 cm. The heat rays were absorbed by water. Phototropic curvatures never occurred under these circumstances during the test period. The orientation of the seedlings, which were always brought to the same height as the light source, was such that one of the two wider flanks was illuminated during microscopic continuous observation (useful for observation!). Otherwise the narrow flank was turned towards the light source. The decapitation was 1-1.5 mm. Immediately after the decapitation the illumination began. The data on temperature, humidity and seedling length are listed in the tables for each experiment. The seedling length is the length of the uninjured imaginary seedling at the end of the experiment, calculated from the base of the grain. The length of the hypocotyls is also calculated from the base of the grain. Otherwise the tables are understandable without further explanation. I just want to point out that the error (in Table 1) is to be understood as the mean error, and that in Tables 2 and 3 the numbers indicating the increase mean the number of graduation lines multiplied by 10. A graduation line = 0.08 mm. A closer look at the tables shows that the decapitated seedlings are clearly inhibited in growth under the influence of illumination. The size of the inhibition corresponds approximately in percentage to the size of the inhibition in normal seedlings, as determined by BRAUNER. The inhibition begins after about half an hour, which is also the same as for normal seedlings. These observations suggest that there is no simple causal relationship between light growth and curvature reactions _table_ _table_ _table_ _table_ literature. Brauner, L.: Light curvature and light growth reaction. Time f. Botany 14. 1922 - Lundegardh, H.: A contribution to the analysis of phototropism. Arc. f. Botany 1922 - Dillewijn, C. van: The connection between light-growth response and photo-tropical curvature of seedlings of Avena sativa. Con. Akad. v. Wetensch. Proc. XXVIII. 1925. - Pisek, A.: Studies on the autotropism of oat coleoptiles etc. Pringsh. Yearb. f. scientific. Botany 65. 1926.
