The importance of soil temperature in agriculture is due both to the beneficial effects of heat in the seed bed and to the destructive effects of frosts upon growing crops. The process of germination will not begin in most cultivated crops until a temperature of 42° or more has been reached and maximum results are attained when the temperature of the soil reaches 68° or 70°. Heat is also necessary to weaken the forces which hold together the food constituents in the soil before they become available for the use of the plant. Nitrification will not take place with the soil temperature below 40°, and is most vigorous at 98°. Again, the osmotic pressure by which the plant food is taken into the plant and forced through the stem to its farthest branch and leaf, is made more effective by heat. On the other hand low temperatures, and especially frost, often cause incalculable damage to vegetation. Purely local conditions have such a decided influence upon the temperature near the surface of the ground that the effects are apparent to the most casual observer. A heavy frost often occurs over one portion of ground while another portion in close proximity, but under different influences will be entirely free from frost. The local differences in temperature in clear weather with light winds are sufficient to be sensible to a person passing from place to place, especially over hills and valleys. With the importance of soil temperature in view, and the influence of local conditions so apparent, a few observations were made to determine approximately the effects of some of these local conditions expressed in degrees Fahrenheit. The first series of observations was made to determine the amount of variation in temperature due to elevation. A low swale surrounded by hills was chosen. Two minimum thermometers were placed on the bare ground, one at the lowest point in the swale and the other on the hilltop about 15 feet above. All conditions, except the elevation, were made as nearly as possible alike. The minimum temperatures, recorded on six clear, still nights in January, were as follows: _table_ The table shows, first, that the newly cultivated soil was 6° warmer at the surface of the ground than the uncultivated; second, that the temperature 3 3 inches below the surface was 5.5° higher on the uncultivated soil. These facts show that the newly cultivated soil conducts heat much more slowly than the uncultivated, probably because it is less compact. The amount of evaporation from each is probably about the same for a short time after cultivation, hence this can not be considered as a cause of the difference in temperature. When cultivation is carried on continuously, the surface of the soil is warmer, and the first few inches below the surface cooler, than upon the same soil uncultivated; while at a depth of 6 inches the cultivated soil has the same or a higher temperature than the uncultivated. These are all desirable conditions during the growing season. The warmer surface soil hastens the process of growth in the plant and is a protection against frost. The soil just below the surface being cooler, retards capillarity and thereby retains the soil moisture, while the temperature about the roots of the plant 5 or 6 inches below the surface is the same or a little higher than on the uncultivated soil. The plan of cultivating the soil about growing crops during the afternoon of a day when the conditions are favorable for frost at night is often recommended, and the table shows that there is much to be gained by so doing. the temperature at the surface of the cultivated soil was 3° higher than on the uncultivated at 2.30 a. m., hence the danger of frost was materially lessened. The heat absorbed duirng the day is held near the surface of the ground in the cultivated soil, instead of being conducted to lower depths, and the air becomes more moist from the rapid evaporation at the surface, which is a condition unfavorable for the occurrence of frost. _table_ These averages show a difference of 4° between low ground with and without air drainage. It so happened that the average of the three readings in the low swale was slightly below the freezing point, while that of the air-drained area was amply above and nearly as high as the average on the hilltop. A third set of readings was made to determine the effect of vegetation upon the temperature of the surface of the ground on which it was growing. Three minimum thermometers were used, the first being placed on naked soil, the second on the surface of the ground in clover about 2.5 inches high, and the third in grass 6 inches high. The table below shows the remarkable variation in temperature due to the growth of vegetation. _table_ The average temperature was over 4° lower in the clover and nearly 10° lower in the grass than on the bare ground. These differences in temperature seem incredibly large, but the observations were carefully made and all conditions surrounding the thermometers, except the covering of vegetation, were the same; hence this one element must have been the real cause of the wide variation. In cool weather live stock invariably seeks bare ground to lie down upon, and the above table shows the advantage in so doing. The bare ground absorbs more heat during the day and radiates less heat at night than does the surface covered with vegetation, and hence it is much warmer. Then, too, much more heat is used up in the process of evaporation from plants than from the naked soil. To demonstrate the fact that more water evaporates from soil on which plants are growing, three small tin cups were filled with loam. The first contained simply the soil, the second was filled with the same soil thickly covered with grass about 2 inches high, and the third the same kind of soil in which were growing 12 wheat plants about 10 inches high. Enough water was added each day for ten consecutive days to saturate the soil, the amount being measured by means of a graduated glass tube. The water evaporated from the naked soil was 43 grams; from the grass-covered soil, 72 grams; and from the soil containing wheat, 84 grams, or nearly twice the amount evaporated from the bare soil. The heat used up in evaporating this large amount of water would be sufficient to lower the temperature of the soil several degrees. Carrying the observations further, it was found that the temperature variations were more dependent upon the height of the plants and their thickness over the surface of the ground than upon the kind of plant. One thermometer was placed in grass about 2 inches high, another in clover about the same height, and a third in grass 8 inches high. The results showed practically no differences between the readings of the first two thermometers, but the third averaged 4° lower. Even the color of the plant was shown to have an influence upon the temperature. A frost was noticed on one portion of a lawn while another portion of the same lawn was free from it. The portion free from frost was a light-colored June grass, while that on which the frost occurred was a very dark-colored meadow fescue. the lawn was newly mown and the grass everywhere about the same height. Apparently the only cause for one portion having frost and the other not was the color of the grass. The thermometers were carefully placed on the two plots under as nearly similar conditions as possible, and readings were taken each half hour during the night. The temperature averaged over one degree higher on the lighter colored grass. The minimum reached on the dark colored grass was 39°, while 40.5° was the lowest recorded on the light colored grass. Another thermometer was placed on a hard, gravel roadbed near by and read with the other thermometers. this averaged about 10° higher than the one in the dark grass. The temperature at the surface of the ground is also greatly influenced by the color of the soil. Temperatures taken on dark colored muck, a lighter colored loam, and a very light clay during an afternoon in summer were, respectively, 110°, 101.5°, and 97°. Readings were also taken early the next morning, and the corresponding temperatures were 61.5°, 60°, and 63.5°. Another important difference in temperature was observed to result from cultivation. temperatures were taken on soil that had been newly cultivated for seeding and upon soil that had not been worked for several days. Thermometers were placed at the surface of the ground, and at 3, 6, and 12 inches below the surface. these were read at 2:30 p. m. and 2:30 a. m. the following day. The readings are given in the table below: _table_ The table shows, first, that the newly cultivated soil was 6° warmer at the surface of the ground than the uncultivated; second, that the temperature 3 inches below the surface was 5.5° higher on the uncultivated soil. These facts show that the newly cultivated soil conducts heat much more slowly than the uncultivated, probably because it is less compact. The amount of evaporation from each is probably about the same for a short time after cultivation, hence this can not be considered as a cause of the difference in temperature. When cultivation is carried on continuously, the surface of the soil is warmer, and the first few inches below the surface cooler, than upon the same soil uncultivated; while at a depth of 6 inches the cultivated soil has the same or a higher temperature than the uncultivated. These are all desirable conditions during the growing season. The warmer surface soil hastens the process of growth in the plant and is a protection against frost. the soil just below the surface being cooler, retards capillarity and thereby retains the soil moisture, while the temperature about the roots of the plant 5 or 6 inches below the surface, is the same or a little higher than on the uncultivated soil. The plan of cultivating the soil about growing crops during the afternoon of a day when the conditions are favorable for frost at night is often recommended, and the table shows that there is much to be gained by so doing. The temperature at the surface of the cultivated soil was 3° higher than on the uncultivated at 2:30 a. m., hence the danger of frost was materially lessened. The heat absorbed during the day is held near the surface of the ground in the cultivated soil, instead of being conducted to lower depths, and the air becomes more moist from the rapid evaporation at the surface, which is a condition unfavorable for the occurrence of frost. In conclusion, the temperature at the surface of the ground has been shown to be markedly dependent upon local conditions. Many of these local conditions are under the control of man, and a better understanding of them would result in beneficial returns to the agriculturist.
