SUMMARY Weather problems in farming fall into three groups. Statistical problems include the forecasting of weather for strategical and tactical use in planning farming operations, and the forecasting of crop yields from weather data. Biological problems arise in studies of growth and of the spread of disease, and demand a wider knowledge of techniques suitable for use in micro-meteorology. Physical problems are largely transport problems in the building up of plant and animal environments. A typical problem from the last group is the disposal of available solar energy, and it is shown that an energy balance sheet can be drawn up to leave evaporation as the only unknown under prescribed conditions that make the treatment directly applicable to control of irrigation operations. Such an application is described for an experiment on irrigation of sugar beet during the summer of 1948. Results were as satisfactory as the weather of the growing season would permit, the application of a total of 2.6 in. of irrigation (based on weather data) giving a slightly better yield of sugar than a total of 4.7 in. applied whenever expert inspection of the crop decided that irrigation was necessary. I. GENERAL SURVEY This paper has two purposes. First, it will survey the types of weather problems arising in farming, using three broad divisions which seem to offer the best bases for planning of future activity. Second, it will consider one particular problem in one of those three divisions. It will be found that the two papers to follow will fit into the other two broad divisions, so that while the three papers will not have attempted to survey the whole domain of agricultural meteorology, they will at least have drawn attention to the main features of its structure. The divisions, as they will be represented in the three main contributions, are physical, biological and statistical, but for this general survey it will be convenient to present them in the reverse order. Statistical problems are manifold, but reference will be made to two only, each to be based on a quotation. Over a hundred years ago Luke Howard (1837) was urging a wider study of meteorology and in one of his lectures to further this object he stated: “We should certainly not fare worse in our Agriculture, our Commerce, etc., for having more real skill in the art of prognostics - we might derive considerable advantage from the study. At any rate, our time would be innocently and agreeably employed”. Luke Howard put first things first and if he were alive today, he would probably be astonished to find that the Meteorological Office is not part of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. Farming needs three kinds of “prognostication”, and although two of them are at present impossible they are worth noting. First, there is a very long-range forecast of seasonal type, which if available a year ahead would have a profound effect on the strategy of farming in choice of crop, manurial treatment, crop husbandry and soil management. Second, at much shorter range, ten- to fourteen-day forecasts would be useful tactically in giving time to prepare against disease or insect attack, or, on the occasions of a favourable forecast, to take full advantage of propitious conditions. The third type of forecast could be provided now, but as Mr. Gloyne’s paper will deal with this aspect it is sufficient to note here that the weather can, and often does, get in the way of every farming operation, and that tactical planning of each day’s work could be made much easier if an accurate forecast of a relevant element could be made the evening before. Forecasts of single elements would often be sufficient, depending upon time of year and the operations planned, and negative forecasts would often be useful. The second statistical problem is also a forecasting problem, not of weather, but of crop yields. In 1871 Köppen published a treatise on plant growth, and concluded: ‘‘I believe that this last consideration serves to destroy the beautiful illusion that it is possible to represent the development of plants, even of a single species, by means of a general formula which contains temperature, light, humidity, and other external agents as factors. However, to be sure, who ever finds illusions more pleasant than sober knowledge is not disturbed by such considerations; hence he goes on his way in peace, and it is no fault of his if others cannot follow him” (quoted from Thornethwaite and Leighly, 1943). We are not bound to accept all the implications of that statement, and both the Crop Weather Scheme started in 1922 and some of the recent decisions of the Toronto Conference of Directors of Meteorological Organisations have flatly opposed it in principle: yet it would be very difficult to find any evidence to show that Köppen was wrong. We all know that crop development depends upon weather, but plants are so skilfully selective in the way they integrate weather elements that the selection principle remain unknown to us, and the best index that can be found to represent the integrated effect is the state of the plant itself. Expression of "the state of the plant" is one of the main technical difficulties encountered in crop-weather statistics: it is futile to attempt to find a relation, say y=f(x1,x2, x3, etc.) if y cannot be measured as well as x, and the cure is not to increase the number of variables on the right-hand side but to give some extra attention to the left-hand side. To do so is not within the province of either the statistician or the meteorologist: it is a job for a biologist, and in work of this kind he should be senior partner, adequately briefed mathematically and physically, and with the necessary meteorological and statistical tools supplied to him, and even used for him. The biologist's main concern is to give quantitative expression to biological activity, and his weather problem is to determine how activity depends upon the physical environment of the organism, whether it be plant, animal or insect. Specification of the environment may involve general meteorology, local meteorology or micro-meteorology, and for the last in particular the intervention of the meteorological physicist may be needed to design suitable apparatus. Biological activity can be broadly regarded as the growth, spread and decay of the units considered, and for economic reasons the main emphasis will not always be on normal growth, but will very often be on abnormalities arising from disease and insect attack. Even in the study of the spread of plant disease there is a wide variety of weather problems, for the infection may be seed-borne, soil-borne, wind-borne, insect-borne or carried by rain splash, and it is in the air-borne spread, whether by wind or by flying insects, that there arises an array of problems of eddy diffusion and turbulent dispersion at least one degree more difficult than those that so frequently come under review by this Society, because the dispersed material has a terminal velocity of settling too large to be neglected in the mathematical analysis. In this kind of problem, of course, the mathematical meteorologist can be of great assistance, particularly if he is prepared to take account of the terminal velocity of settling, and of the existence of a solid boundary very close to the source of the dispersed material. There are simpler problems, however, which the physicist can study by himself, and these problems are themselves of great importance, not only agriculturally but also meteorologically. They include transport problems such as the movement of heat, the movement of water vapour, and the dispersal of atmospheric impurities. Although they can be split up into three main groups, namely the heat balance, the water balance, and the smoothing out of atmospheric irregularities, the subsidiary groups are so much interlocked that no matter which group is started on, problems in the other groups must be considered before much progress can be made. The remainder of the paper will show how the solution of one of these problems in meteorological physics can be of service in the planning of irrigation operations, and the degree of interlocking referred to above will be demonstrated by the fact that after setting out to draw up a heat balance, a water balance will be achieved by making use of the results of experiments on turbulent diffusion. 2. THE PHYSICS OF IRRIGATION CONTROL (a) What happens to the sunshine? Many of the physical problems in agricultural meteorology emerge in an attempt to answer: “What happens to the sunshine?”, but because of the overwhelming importance of water in any system of farming it will be expedient to concentrate on the part sunshine plays in providing latent heat for the process of evaporation. During daylight hours sun- and sky-light provide a certain measurable amount of short-wave radiant energy, the intensity of which varies with latitude, season and time of day. Part of it is reflected, the order of magnitude of the reflexion coefficients for open water, wet bare soil, and fresh green vegetation being about 5, 10 and 20 per cent respectively. For the last a small part is used in photosynthesis, but being only about 0.5 per cent of the incoming amount, it can be neglected in any physical balance sheet. Part of the non-reflected radiation is re-radiated as long-wave radiation throughout day and night, but as there is a similar stream of long-wave radiation from the atmosphere and its clouds, the net outflow is not as great as it would be if the earth had no atmosphere. The net outflow is reduced when the water vapour content of the atmosphere is high, and when cloud cover is great: also the greater the cloud cover the less will be the duration of bright sunshine, making it possible to express the cloud factor in any expression for back radiation, in terms of the ratio of actual to possible hours of bright sunshine. It might be noted here that the short-wave radiation from sun and sky will also increase with duration of bright sunshine, and to an adequate degree of approximation it is possible to write for the net amount of energy retained at the earth’s surface - conveniently known as the heat budget - _formula_ where Ra is the maximum intensity of solar radiation that would reach the earth if it had no atmosphere, n/N is the ratio actual/possible hours of sunshine, r is the reflexion coefficient of the surface, sigmaTa4 is the black-body radiation at mean air temperature (Ta), and ed is the vapour pressure (=S.V.P. at dewpoint) (Penman 1948). The heat budget is used up in three ways. It may be converted into sensible heat to warm the ground and the air above it: and it may be used as latent heat to convert water into vapour. We may write (Cummings and Richardson 1927) H=R1 - RB = S + K + E. Although E is the objective, note in passing that at night R1 is zero, E can often be safely neglected, and the equation reduces to H = -RB = S + K, or RB = -S -K, i.e. there is a net loss of heat from the ground and the air, greatest when vapour pressure and cloudiness are small. Problems of radiation frosts are implicit in this equation, but at the moment it is sufficient to note that the greater -S can be made, the smaller need -K be, that is the more heat that can be taken out of the ground, the less will have to come from the air, and the aerial parts of plants can be protected at the expense of the heat content round the roots (See Brunt 1934, 1939). From day to day the values of S are small and of random sign, so that over a period of several days S can often be safely neglected in comparison with R and E. For such periods we may write H = E + K. The condition that E should be positive is that the vapour pressure at the surface should be greater than in the air above; for K to be positive, the surface temperature must be greater than that in the air above (neglecting the normal lapse rate). The mechanism of the transfer is by turbulent diffusion, but there are, as yet, no complete analytical solutions of the problems of turbulent transfer of water vapour and heat. To an adequate degree of approximation, however, the turbulent transport coefficient can be represented as a function of horizontal wind velocity: where e8 and T8 are the vapour pressure and temperature at the surface and gamma is a constant. Analytically, f(u) takes the form alphauu where n=7/9 according to Sutton (1934), and n=1 according to Frost (1946) and Thornethwaite and Holzman (1939). Experimental results out-of-doors persist in yielding f(u)=a+bu, but the analysis can be taken a stage farther by making the reasonable assumption that f(u) is the same for both vapour and heat transfer, for then it is possible to write K/E=Beta, say, = gamma(Ts-Ta)/(es-ed) where Beta, frequently known as Bowen's ratio (1926) has the value -1 in the wet- and dry-bulb hygrometer equation, and y can now be identified as the constant of that equation. Finally, as an expression of the amount of sunshine used in evaporation, we can write for periods no shorter than a day H=R1-RB=E (1+Beta): whence E=H/(1+Beta). The properties of the surface appear in both numerator and denominator of this expression, but in the former only as a reflexion coefficient, and H can be estimated from simple observations fairly easily. In the denominator, both surface temperature and surface vapour pressure occur: over an open water surface it is possible to regard the surface air as saturated so that measurement of the surface temperature will give a measure of surface vapour pressure also. Even so, measurement of surface temperature is not easy and it is desirable to find some way of eliminating it from the computations. This can be done by finding another relation between evaporation and factors including surface temperature. Such a relation exists in the equation, for turbulent transport of vapour: in its empirical form it is _formula_ where u2 is in miles per day measured at 2 m (Penman 1948). As a practical convenience it is helpful to introduce a new quantity Ea, which is the value taken by E0 when instead of es we use a vapour pressure ea - the saturation vapour pressure at air temperature - so that (ea-ed) becomes the saturation deficit of the air, and all the quantities in Ea are air parameters. Then a simple piece of algebra leads to _formula_ where Delta is the slope of the saturation vapour pressure curve at mean air temperature. To evaluate Eo, therefore, it is sufficient to know four quantities: mean air temperature, mean dewpoint temperature, mean duration of bright sunshine, and mean wind velocity. Although important in itself, this estimation of the theoretical evaporation from an open water surface is only a means to an end. The end is the estimation of the transpiration of growing vegetation, and although some progress has been made toward an absolute description in terms of the stomata1 geometry and the length of daylight, we shall be dependent upon relative values obtained empirically for some time to come. These values were obtained in comparisons of the relative evaporation rates from open water and turf plentifully supplied with water exposed to the same weather over a period of two years (Penman 1918). Further data now accumulating may call for a slight revision of these empirical factors. They are, for SE. England: _table_ In other latitudes the seasonal values will change with length of daylight: toward the equator they should converge in all seasons on a value not far from 0.75. It should be noted that the value of ET, calculated in two stages from weather data, is for a crop that has an ample supply of water, that is growing in the midst of an extended area of similar plants, and that has a reflection coefficient of the same order as that of grass. While water supply is non-limiting, water consumption is dictated by the weather-the crop behaves like a sheet of wet green blotting paper that is covered up at night. The conditions under which the estimates are valid are those aimed at in designing an adequate irrigation system, so it should be possible to plan irrigation operations on the basis of contemporary weather data. As the next section will give an account of a field experiment of this kind, it will be sufficient to conclude the present section with some general remarks on the conditions when the estimates are not valid. They will not apply to small isolated patches of crop, that is to crops in pots, for such plants intercept more radiation and are better ventilated than they would be in a large field. They will not apply after the roots have used up the immediately available water; soil factors, fertilizer treatment, crop management, and crop type may then become important (Penman 1949). They will not apply if the crop changes colour in ripening, for that will affect the amount of reflected radiation. Under these conditions the interrelations of weather and transpiration, and weather and crop yield, become somewhat more complicated, and present a wide field for future physical and biological research. (b) The Milford Experiment During the summer of 1948 an attempt was made to apply the preceding results to field conditions on Mr. F. Secrett's market garden at Milford in Surrey. The crop was sugar-beet, 36 plots of 1/16 acre being set out in a 6x6 latin square. There were subplot treatments of different fertilizers, and irrigation water for some plots contained dissolved potassium nitrate, but ignoring these chemical factors as irrelevant the main experiment reduced to this: twelve plots received no irrigation (treatment O); twelve plots were irrigated at the discretion of the owner of the farm (treatment F); and the remainder were irrigated whenever the weather-estimated value of the soil moisture deficit reached a level at which irrigation was thought to be desirable (treatment R). Irrigation was by overhead spray lines capable of delivering the equivalent of about one inch of rain in 8 hours, and the controlled irrigation was planned on the assumption that this was the maximum amount of water that could be applied in one operation. The crop was sown near the end of March and singled while still very small at the end of April: it was assumed that the soil was at, or very near, field capacity at the end of April, and calculations of moisture loss were made from this datum level. For treatment R it was proposed that irrigation should be applied at times and in amounts that would reduce the moisture deficit to zero at the end of May, 0.5 in. at the end of June, 1.0 in. at the end of July, and 1.5 in. at the end of August if any other August irrigations were to take place on plots F. These values are joined by the dotted line of Fig. I. As the maximum single irrigation was one inch, a second line is drawn, one inch lower, to represent the maximum tolerable deficit that could be permitted at any time. To obtain the necessary weather data a small station was set up on the field. A thermo-hygrograph in a Stevenson screen gave a continuous record of air temperature and relative humidity, a three-cup counter type anemometer at 2 m above ground gave the run-of-the-wind, and a standard 8 in. raingauge was set up in one of the wider paths between plots. Dr. G. Sansom, who makes regular climatological returns to the Meteorological Office from his home about one mile away, readily agreed to co-operate, and he supplied records of bright sunshine, maximum and minimum air temperature, rainfall, and dry- and wet-bulb readings for 09:00 each day. At one stage an unavoidable break in Dr. Sansom's records was made good by the observer at the Royal Horticultural Society's Gardens at Wisley. The weather records were received weekly from Mr. A. B. Venables - in charge of the experiment - and from these were obtained mean daily values for each week of: air temperature, water vapour pressure, wind speed, and the ratio of actual to possible hours of sunshine. (See upper part of figure.) The theoretical values of Ea and H were calculated (Fig. I) and thence E0 and the estimated value of the total transpiration for the week, using the reduction factor appropriate for the time of year. Because a complete crop cover was not established until toward the end of May, the estimates for the first three weeks were based on the assumption that the soil was effectively bare, Sahni's formula (1941) being used to calculate evaporation. _diagram_ To get a check on the accuracy of the weather-based estimates of soil moisture deficit, soil samples were taken at intervals. The first and fourth sets were taken by Mr. M. L. Puri, who applied the Russell and Balcerek (1944) technique to them to obtain absolute values of the volume of water present in unit volume of sample: the second and third samples were simple auger samples from which no more than the direction of a major change could be estimated with any certainty. The net measured change in soil moisture content between the first (15 April) and fourth samplings (26 July) was about 2.3 in. down to 60 cm and if, as is reasonable, we assume no significant change between 15 and 30 April, the soil moisture deficit on 26 July was 2.3 in. The auger samplings on 18 May and 29 June indicated that some moisture had been lost from the top 20 cm, the amount being about the same on the two occasions. Results of weather estimates of the trend of soil moisture deficit appear at the bottom of the figure. The value for 26 July is 2.3 in., a purely fortuitous agreement with the measured value, which, because of soil variation, could be at least half an inch in error: the values on 18 May and 29 June are about equal to one another and both are greater than on 1 May, in agreement with the indications of the auger samplings. Although this evidence is too slight to establish the validity of the theoretical estimates, it is favourable and encouraging. The figure gives the history of the experiment. By 22 May the estimated soil moisture deficit reached the limiting line at 0.9 in. and irrigation of plots R was asked for and was obtained: during the next week 1.62 in. of rain fell, rendering the irrigation superfluous, and it is estimated that 1.05 in. of rain passed through the soil as drainage. Of 0.93 in. of rain in the week after, 0.31 in. was estimated as lost in drainage. During June and early July the soil moisture deficit increased, and by 17 July had reached its lowest permissible value for that time of year and further irrigation was called for, but because of windy conditions the water could not be applied until 28 July by which time another inch was needed. This second inch was asked for on 27 July and was applied on 4 August, just as the period of brilliant sunshine and extreme drying conditions came to an end, 2.21 in. of rain falling before 7 August: so for the second time the irrigation operation was rendered superfluous, water being presumed lost by drainage during both of the first two weeks of August. Rainfall in later weeks up to harvest (18 October onward) was always sufficient, and no further irrigation was needed. The total amount of irrigation on plots R was 2.6 in. _table_ TABLE I. - MEAN EFFECTS OF IRRIGATION (Averaged over all plots and all other treatments) Meantime, plots F were irrigated six times and received 4.7 in. altogether. Before harvest, the calculations indicated that natural rainfall had been sufficient during the summer to permit maximum possible transpiration, and hence, presumably, to permit maximum growth in the absence of other limiting factors. Apart from second order effects that might arise from washing out of plant nutrients by excessive watering it was anticipated, therefore, that crop yields would be independent of watering treatment. Table 1 shows how nearly this was realized. It is probable that the sugar yield from plots R is significantly higher than from plots F, but the other differences are non-significant. As in the comparison of the sampling and weather-based estimates of moisture deficit, the agreement between prediction and experimental results cannot be regarded as any more than encouraging, and it is hoped that a repetition of the experiment in 1949 will be favoured by more extreme weather conditions that will really put some stress on the theoretical estimates. 3. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS I wish to make two sets of acknowledgments. The first is to those already named, for the valuable assistance given in the course of the irrigation experiment; the second is to the Instruments Branch of the Meteorological Office for the unfailing courtesy and readiness to help with which requests for the loan of equipment were met. REFERENCES Bowen, I. S. Phys. Rev., Lancaster, Pa., 27, p. 779. Brunt, D. 1934, 1939 Physical and Dynamical Meteorology, Cambridge (Univ. Press). Cummings, N. W.and Richardson, B. Phys. Rev., Lancaster, Pa., 30, p. 527. Frost, R. Proc.Roy.Soc., London, A, 186, p. 20. Howard, L. 1837, 1843 Seven Lectures on Meteorology, London, Penman, H. L. 1948 Proc.Roy.Soc., London, A , 193, p. 120. Penman, H. L. 1949 J.Soil.Sci., Oxford, 1, p. 74. Russell, E. W., and Balcerek, 1944 J.Agric.Sci., Cambridge, 34, p. 123. Sahni, P. N. 1941 Ibid., 31, p. 110. Sutton, 0. G. 1934 Proc.Roy.Soc., London, A, 146, p. 701. Thornethwaite, C. W., and Holzman, B. 1939 Mon.Weath.Rev., Washington, 67, p. 4. Thornethwaite, C. W. and Leighly, J. 1943 Sci.Monthly, New York, 57, p. 457.
